Q40|Modeling transfer profits as externalities in a cooperative game-theoretic model of natural gas networks|Existing cooperative game theoretic studies of bargaining power in gas pipeline systems are based on the so called characteristic function form (CFF). This approach is potentially misleading if some pipelines fall under regulated third party access (TPA). TPA, which is by now the norm in the EU, obliges the owner of a pipeline to transport gas for others, provided they pay a regulated transport fee. From a game theoretic perspective, this institutional setting creates so called “externalities”, the description of which requires partition function form (PFF) games. In this paper we propose a method to compute payoffs, reflecting the power structure, for a pipeline system with regulated TPA. The method is based on an iterative flow mechanism to determine gas flows and transport fees for individual players and uses the recursive core and the minimal claim function to convert the PPF game back into a CFF game, which can be solved by standard methods. We illustrate the approach with a simple stylized numerical example of the gas network in Central Eastern Europe with a focus on Ukraine's power index as a major transit country.
Q40|Financial Distress and Hedging: Evidence from Canadian Oil Firms|The paper explores the link between financial distress and the commodity price hedging behaviour of Canadian oil firms. Specifically, we argue that the expected costs of financial distress have been associated with the hedging behaviour for Canadian oil firms between 2005 and 2015. We use firm-level annual data for 92 Canadian-based, publicly traded oil extraction companies. Results from Honore’s semiparametric model for panel data with fixed effects and Heckman's two-step model show that firms with higher short-term and long-term debt tend to hedge more. Furthermore, an increase in the Altman bankruptcy score by one is associated with the decline of the hedge ratio by 1.2 to 1.7 percentage points.
Q40|Cost-environment efficiency analysis of construction industry in China: A materials balance approach|This study utilizes the data envelopment analysis technique with materials balance condition to evaluate the inherent trade-offs between environmental and cost outcomes among different types of energy consumptions in China¡¯s construction industry. Environmental and cost efficiency that is decomposed into technical efficiency and allocative efficiency are estimated, and the possible environmental impact and economic cost of reallocating energy inputs for improving efficiency are obtained. The estimation results show that: i) China¡¯s construction industry has the ability to produce its current level of industrial added value with fewer CO2 emissions and fewer energy input cost through removing technical inefficiency and adjusting energy consumption structure. ii) There are 31.9% and 6.1% reduction potentials on CO2 emissions if this industry attained the most environmentally efficient and the most costly efficient situation, respectively. iii) The average shadow cost of CO2 emissions reduction in this industry is very low, suggesting that it should control CO2 emissions through optimizing energy consumption structure and improving energy efficiency, instead of relying on end-of-pipe emission abatement technologies or emission trading systems.
Q40|Spatial heterogeneity and driving forces of environmental productivity growth in China: Would it help to switch pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes?|Emission charge policy has recently switched from pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes in China. Considering spatial heterogeneity, the effects of changes in emission charge policy may subject to different Chinese regions. In this study, environmental efficiencies of Chinese regions are evaluated through provincial environmentally extended input-output tables and a frontier-based optimization model. Driving factors of environmental productivity growth are identified through global Luenberger productivity decomposition approach. Moreover, spatial heterogeneity on the effects of change in emission charge policy on environment and economy are assessed. Results show that all regions experienced environmental productivity growth. Technology progress is the major driving factor in most regions with an average contribution of 90%, while technical efficiency regress slows environmental productivity growth in Southwest region. Switching from pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes would decreases emission intensities by 1.42% on average, but it would have different negative impact on economic growth (-1.13%~-4.90% of regional GDP) due to spatially heterogeneous trade-offs between environmental protection and economic development. Addressing such spatial heterogeneity provide not only a basis for diversified tax rate determination but also a framework for other environmental policy assessment.
Q40|Sufficient or insufficient: Assessment on the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) of world¡¯s major emitters|"The recent conference of the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) resulted in the Intended National Determined Contributions (INDCs)by 190 countries. The aim of this article is to offer an analysis of the ambition and fairness of the mitigation components of the INDCs submitted by parties. We use a unified framework to assess the 23 INDCs covering 50 countries (EU 28 countries as a Party to the Convention), representing 87.45% of global greenhouse gas emissions in 2012. First, we transform initial INDC files into reported reduction target. Second, we create four schemes and six scenarios to find out required reduction effort, which takes nation¡¯s reduction responsibility, capacity and potential into consideration, reflecting historical and current development status of each nation. At last, we put reported reduction target and required reduction effort together to assess INDCs. In the evaluation of the 23emitters, two emitters (EU and Brazil) were rated as ""sufficient"". Seven emitters, such as China, the United States and Canada were rated as ""moderate"". Fourteen emitters, such as India, Russian and Japan were rated as ""insufficient"". Most pledges reveal a great distance from representing a fair contribution."
Q40|On the impact of government-initiated CfD's in Australia's National Electricity Market|An intriguing characteristic of Australian energy market policymaking is the almost exclusive focus on spot market dynamics. The policy development cycle displays a virtual disregard for, and of, power system financial markets. The irony is that forward contract prices form the defining wholesale price input to end-user consumer tariffs. In this article, the impacts of a wide-ranging program of government-initiated CfDs on power system financial markets are analysed. Government-initiated CfDs are highly effective in correcting market failures, but they need to be used judiciously because – while they add to demand-side liquidity, they simultaneously extract supply-side forward contract market liquidity. Consequently, when used en-masse in loosely interconnected energy-only markets, CfDs have pro-competitive effects in the spot market by introducing ‘quasi-market participants’ but damage power system financial markets via the loss of liquidity. Power system modelling in this article demonstrates that a wide-ranging policy of government-initiated CfDs can produce shortages of ‘primary issuance’ hedge contact supply. This is far more than theory. In the South Australian region of the NEM, shortages of primary-issuance hedge contract supply have arisen through renewable entry and coal plant exit. Hedge shortages have had the effect of raising forward contract price premiums above efficient levels, needlessly forced the most price-elastic (Industrial/Manufacturing) customers into accepting unwanted spot market exposures, and unintentionally foreclosed non-integrated (2nd tier) energy retailers, all of which ultimately harms consumer welfare. CfDs have a targeted role to play in energy markets by correcting market failure; but broad-based market mechanisms are preferred.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|A Unit Commitment and Economic Dispatch Model of the GB Electricity Market – Formulation and Application to Hydro Pumped Storage|We present a well calibrated unit commitment and economic dispatch model of the GB electricity market and applied it to the economic analysis of the four existing hydro pumped storage (PS) stations in GB. We found that with more wind on the system PS arbitrage revenue increases: with every percentage point (p.p) increase in wind capacity the total PS arbitrage profit increases by 0.21 p.p.. However, under a range of wind capacity, the PS’ modelled revenue from price arbitrage is not enough to cover their ongoing fixed costs. Analysing the 2015-18 GB balancing and ancillary services data suggests that PS stations were not active in managing transmission constraints and in fact about 60% of constraint payments went to gas-fired units. However, the PS stations are active in provision of ancillary services such as fast reserve, response and other reserve services with a combined market share of at least 30% in 2018. Stacking up the modelled revenue from price arbitrage with the 2018 balancing and ancillary services revenues against the ongoing fixed costs suggests that the four existing PS stations are profitable. Most of the revenue comes from balancing and ancillary services markets – about 75% – whereas only 25% comes from price arbitrage. However, the revenues will not be enough to cover capex and opex of a new 600 MW PS station. The gap in financing will have to come from balancing and ancillary services market opportunities and less so from purely price arbitrage. Finally, we found that the marginal contribution of most of the existing PS stations to gas and coal plant profitability is negative, while from the system point of view, PS stations do contribute to minimizing the total operating cost.
Q40|Lessons from Australia’s National Electricity Market 1998-2018: the strengths and weaknesses of the reform experience|Australia’s National Electricity Market (NEM) commenced in 1998 and after two decades it is timely to reflect on the strengths and weaknesses of the reform experience. The centrepiece of NEM reforms was the energy-only wholesale market and accompanying forward markets, and for most of the past 20 years it has displayed consistent economic and technical performance. But missing policies relating to climate change, natural gas and plant exit has recently produced results that have tested political tolerances. The piecemeal and random interventions that are now following are likely to inflame rather than resolve matters, at least over the near term. Network policy failures in the mid-2000s led to sharp regulated tariff increases from 2007 onwards. These policy problems were largely cauterized by 2012 but regulatory timeframes and business inertia meant network tariffs didn’t stabilise until 2015. The retail market has been forced to deliver sharply rising prices, and in consequence the problem of rising prices has been conflated with price discrimination; a largely unhelpful development in an otherwise workably competitive market.
Q40|Seasonal Flexibility in the European Natural Gas Market|The paper focuses on a seasonal demand swing in the European gas market. We quantify and compare the role of different flexibility options (domestic production, pipeline and LNG imports, and gas storages) in covering European demand fluctuations in monthly resolution. We contribute to the existing literature focusing on seasonal flexibility by addressing the problem with a mathematical gas market optimisation model. Empirically, our paper provides valuable insights with regard to declining North Western European gas production. Furthermore, we focus our discussion on specific flexibility features of pipeline versus LNG supplies and gas imports versus storage dispatch. In terms of methodology, we develop a bottom-up market optimisation model and publish the complete source code (which is still uncommon for gas market models). Furthermore, we propose a new metric based on the coefficient of variation to quantify the importance of supply sources for seasonal flexibility provision.
Q40|Energy Consumption in the GCC Countries: Evidence on Persistence|This paper examines the statistical properties of energy consumption in the GCC countries applying fractional integration methods to annual data from 1980 to 2014. The results indicate that both the raw and the logged series exhibit a (statistically significant) linear time trend in the case of Bahrain, Oman and Qatar, and the raw series only in the case of Saudi Arabia. Mean reversion (i.e., statistical evidence of d
Q40|Equilibrium Trade in Automobile Markets|We introduce a computationally tractable dynamic equilibrium model of the automobile market where new and used cars of multiple types (e.g. makes/models) are traded by heterogeneous consumers. Prices and quantities are determined endogenously to equate supply and demand for all car types and vintages, along with the ages at which cars are scrapped. The model allows for transactions costs, taxes, flexible specifications of car characteristics, consumer preferences, and heterogeneity. We apply the model to two examples: a revenue-neutral replacement of the new vehicle registration tax with a higher fuel tax and a hypothetical “merger to monopoly” in an oligopolistic new car market. We show substantial gains in consumer welfare from the tax policy change, as well as important effects on government revenues, automobile prices, driving, fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions, while the merger leads to substantial welfare losses.
Q40|Consumer myopia in vehicle purchases: evidence from a natural experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
Q40|Global Futures of Energy, Climate, and Policy: Qualitative and Quantitative Foresight towards 2055|Existing long-term energy and climate scenarios are typically a rather simple extrapolation of past trends. Both qualitative and quantitative outlooks co-exist, but they often focus narrowly on individual perspectives, which is opposed to the interlinked and complex nature of energy and climate. Therefore, this study presents a set of novel and multidisciplinary narratives that give insight into four distinct and extreme yet plausible worlds: base case ‘Business-as-usual’, worst case ‘Survival of the Fittest’, best case ‘Green Cooperation’, and surprise scenario ‘ClimateTech’. Going beyond other outlooks, our narratives focus on changes in the geopolitical landscape and global order, social perspectives on climate issues, and technological progress. These holistic scenarios are designed to overcome previous barriers by an innovative bridging between both qualitative and quantitative methods. We start with the generation of qualitative scenario storylines using techniques of foresight analysis, including a facilitated expert workshop. Then, we calibrate the numerical energy systems model Multimod to reflect the different storylines. Finally, we unite and refine storylines and numerical model results into holistic narratives. In addition to the narratives (which include quantitative results on e.g. emissions, energy consumption, and the electricity mix), the study generates insights on the key uncertainties and drivers of different pathways of (more or less successful) climate change mitigation. Additionally, a set of transparent indicators serves as an early-warning system to identify which of the paths the world might enter. Lessons learnt include the dangers from increased isolationism and the importance of integrating economic and energy-related objectives as well as the large role of public opinion and social transition.
Q40|Do Energy Efficiency Networks Save Energy? Evidence from German Plant-Level Data|In energy efficiency networks, groups of firms exchange experiences on energy conservation in regular meetings over several years. The companies implement energy efficiency measures in order to reach commonly agreed energy savings and CO2 reduction goals. Energy efficiency networks exist in several countries, such as Germany, Sweden and China. Existing evaluations of such voluntary regional networks in Germany claim that participants improved energy efficiency at twice the speed of the industry average. Based on comprehensive data from the German manufacturing census, this paper examines whether participation in energy efficiency networks has a causal impact on energy conservation and CO2 emissions. I employ both a difference-in-differences estimator, using companies that joined energy efficiency networks at a later point in time as a control group, as well as a semiparametric matching estimator. I demonstrate that for the average participant there is no evidence of a statistically significant effect on energy productivity or CO2 emissions due to the network activities. However, there is some indication that exporters may have benefitted from the networks by reducing their CO2 emissions.
Q40|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy: Normative Assessment and Positive Prognosis|There is widespread agreement among economists--and a diverse set of other policy analysts--that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap-and-trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.
Q40|Supply Flexibility in the Shale Patch: Evidence from North Dakota|We analyse if output flexibility in oil production depends on the extraction technology.In particular, we ask to what extent shale oil producers respond to price incentives by changing completion of new wells as well as oil production from completed wells. Using a novel well-level monthly production data set covering more than 15,000 crude oil wells in North Dakota, we find large differences in response between conventional and unconventional (shale) extraction technology: While shale oil wells respond significantly to spot future spreads by changing both well completion and crude oil production, conventional wells do not. Our results indicate that firms using shale oil technology are more flexible in allocating output intertemporally. We interpret such output pattern of shale oil wells to be consistent with the Hotelling theory of optimal extraction.
Q40|The optimal carbon tax with an endogenous chance of a tipping climate|This paper describes an integrated assessment model with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. The possibility of tipping leads to the following linked outcomes: a prolonged period of peak temperature; a rebound in emissions prior to and during peak temperature; and a fall in the optimal carbon tax as a ratio of output prior to and during peak temperature. Although tipping can occur in any period where temperature rises to a new maximum, the optimal carbon price can be calculated from future temperature outcomes conditional on no tipping. Learning that tipping has not occurred lowers the tax.
Q40|Weighing cows and coal: Optimal taxes for methane and carbon from a tipping risk|Different optimal tax paths for short-lived methane and long-lived carbon arise in a cost-benefit framework with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. Tax paths are compared with a cost minimising approach where an upper-temperature limit is set. In both approaches, the weight (ratio) of methane to carbon taxes converge to the same value by the end of the peak temperature stabilisation period. Numerical results from the cost-benefit framework suggest: the optimal weight is close to the current United Nations policy of a 100-year Global Warming Potential; and the time-frame should decrease to align with the expected end of peak temperature.
Q40|Quantile relationship between oil and stock returns: Evidence from emerging and frontier stock markets|This study extends the literature on the asymmetric effect of oil price fluctuations on emerging and frontier stock markets via a quantile-on-quantile approach that allows to capture normal and extreme states in each respective market. We find that oil risk exposures are heterogeneous across the emerging and frontier stock markets and indeed display quantile-specific characteristics. Observing uniform patterns of oil risk exposures within groups of countries that include both importers and exporters, we argue that oil price risk serves as a systematic risk proxy, capturing the market’s concerns regarding global growth expectations, rather than a simple import/export commodity. Our findings suggest that signals from the oil market, either via measures of trading activity in oil futures or changes in basis values, could be utilized by policy makers to improve models of stock market volatility.
Q40|On the impact of government-initiated CfD’s in Australia’s National Electricity Market|An intriguing characteristic of Australian energy market policymaking is the almost exclusive focus on spot market dynamics. The policy development cycle displays a virtual disregard for, and of, power system financial markets. The irony is that forward contract prices form the defining wholesale price input to end-user consumer tariffs. In this article, the impacts of a wide-ranging program of government-initiated CfDs on power system financial markets are analysed. Government-initiated CfDs are highly effective in correcting market failures, but they need to be used judiciously because – while they add to demand-side liquidity, they simultaneously extract supply-side forward contract market liquidity. Consequently, when used en-masse in loosely interconnected energy-only markets, CfDs have pro-competitive effects in the spot market by introducing ‘quasi-market participants’ but damage power system financial markets via the loss of liquidity. Power system modelling in this article demonstrates that a wide-ranging policy of government-initiated CfDs can produce shortages of ‘primary issuance’ hedge contact supply. This is far more than theory. In the South Australian region of the NEM, shortages of primary-issuance hedge contract supply have arisen through renewable entry and coal plant exit. Hedge shortages have had the effect of raising forward contract price premiums above efficient levels, needlessly forced the most price-elastic (Industrial/Manufacturing) customers into accepting unwanted spot market exposures, and unintentionally foreclosed non-integrated (2nd tier) energy retailers, all of which ultimately harms consumer welfare. CfDs have a targeted role to play in energy markets by correcting market failure; but broad-based market mechanisms are preferred.
Q40|A model-based clustering approach for analyzing energy-related financial literacy and its determinants|Recent research highlights the role of consumer’s energy-related financial literacy in adoption of energy efficient household appliances in order to reduce the energy-efficiency gap within the household sector. The computation of an indicator for such a literacy measure has followed a somewhat less refined approach though. This paper demonstrates the use of a model-based clustering strategy in order to differentiate the population based on the level of energy-related financial literacy. Using a Swiss data with 6, 722 respondents, we are able to identify three latent groups that represent low, mid and high levels of literacy. We use this new measure within an ordered logit setting with the goal of explaining the determinants of the level of energy-related financial literacy and compare empirical results using classical indicators and approaches. The empirical findings suggest a significant gender-gap among the Swiss population, i.e. females, even those with university education, are less likely to possess a high level of energy-related financial literacy. Individuals who display strong concern for free-riding on their own energy reduction behavior, are also found to have higher odds of belonging to the low literacy group. The results show that it is possible to identify latent classes that have a general and intuitive meaning and provides support to the model-based clustering approach as a sophisticated alternative. This could be a useful approach when empirical researchers are interested in (attribute-based) latent groups of consumers. The identification of latent classes also provides a possibility to target consumers belonging to these classes with specific policy measures in order to increase their level of literacy.
Q40|Digitalization for Energy Access in Sub-Saharan Africa : Challenges, Opportunities and Potential Business Models|Innovative business models supported by digital technologies, together with the widening connectivity and data collection, are already giving a big contribution in fostering the access to electricity and clean cooking in Sub-Saharan Africa. This paper gives an overview on the actual state of energy access in Sub-Saharan Africa and the current technologies used to provide it, followed by a description of the key trends and drivers of the ongoing African digital transformation. A deep analysis of the Pay-as-you-go business model in the off-grid solar sector will shed light on how this transformation started some years ago and the way it is affecting society in many ways. Strengths and opportunities — as well as weaknesses and risks of the model — are provided through a screening of the most representative business experiences in East and West Africa, financial aspects and market analysis. The perspective of both companies and end-users have been considered here. The last section gives recommendations to policy-makers on how to ride the wave of digitalization to foster the access to clean and reliable energy, by acting on the electrification planning, regulations, business environment, distribution channels and mobile money environment.
Q40|Central Asia Oil and Gas Industry - The External Powers’ Energy Interests in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan|After the Soviet breakup, Central Asia has gained importance for several States because of its geographical location and abundance of hydrocarbon reserves. These hydrocarbon reserves are located mainly in three countries: Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Each of them has taken different path regarding its foreign policy and the regulation of investments and participation of external companies and States in its energy sector. Through the development, production and export of their oil and gas reserves, they have pursued a ‘multi-vector’ policy, consolidating differently their relations with other countries. The main States involved – at different levels and for different reasons – in the oil and gas sector of the Central Asian countries are: Russia, China, United States, European countries, Iran, India and Turkey. Among these players, Russia considers Central Asia still part of its sphere of influence for historical reasons, while it has to deal an increasing presence of Beijing. The Western countries has gained influence particularly in Kazakhstan, but they have no political leverage in Turkmenistan. This working paper provides an overview of the current situation of external players’ interests in the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The working paper is structured into four different sections. In the first section, the paper gives an overview of the main interests and pillars of external involvement in Central Asia as a region. The other three sections are devoted to provide separately the current status of energy relations between each Central Asian country and external players, starting from the closest countries (Russia and China) to the regional ones (Iran, Turkey and India) until non-regional countries (United States and European countries). During these analysis, investments in the oil and gas sector as well as energy export routes and volumes are highlighted in order to understand the current situation of the energy relations. At the end of each country section, the main trends and interests of the countries in the regional oil and gas sector are outlined.
Q40|Closer to One Great Pool? Evidence from Structural Breaks in Oil Price Differentials|We show that the oil market has become closer to “one great pool,” in the sense that price differentials between crude oils of different qualities have generally become smaller over time. We document, in particular, that many of these quality-related differentials experienced a major structural break in or around 2008, after which there was a marked reduction in their means and, in many cases, volatilities. Several factors explain these shifts, including a growing ability of the global refinery sector to process lower-quality crude oil and the U.S. shale boom, which has unexpectedly boosted the supply of high-quality crude oil. Differentials between crude oils of similar quality in general did not experience breaks in or around 2008, although we do find evidence of breaks at other times. We also show that these structural breaks can affect tests of stationarity for many price differentials.
Q40|The Role of Electricity Prices in Structural Transformation: Evidence from the Philippines|The Philippines provides an extreme example of Rodrikâ€™s observation that late developing countries experience deindustrialization at lower levels of per capita income than more advanced economies. Previous studies point to the role of protectionist policies, financial crises, and currency overvaluation as explanations for the shrinking share of the industry sector. We complement this literature by examining the role of electricity prices in the trajectory of industry share. We make use of data at the country level for 33 countries over the period 1980-2014 and at the Philippine regional level for 16 regions over the period 1990-2014. We find that higher electricity prices tend to amplify deindustrialization, causing industry share to turn downward at a lower peak and a lower per capita income, and to decline more steeply than otherwise. In a two-country comparison, we find that power intensive manufacturing subsectors have expanded more rapidly in Indonesia, where electricity prices have been low, whereas Philippine manufacturing has shifted toward less power-intensive and more labor-intensive subsectors in the face of high prices.
Q40|The Role of Electricity Prices in Structural Transformation: Evidence from the Philippines|The Philippines provides an extreme example of Rodrikâ€™s observation that late developing countries experience deindustrialization at lower levels of per capita income than more advanced economies. Previous studies point to the role of protectionist policies, financial crises, and currency overvaluation as explanations for the shrinking share of the industry sector. We complement this literature by examining the role of electricity prices in the trajectory of industry share. We make use of data at the country level for 33 countries over the period 1980-2014 and at the Philippine regional level for 16 regions over the period 1990-2014. We find that higher electricity prices tend to amplify deindustrialization, causing industry share to turn downward at a lower peak and a lower per capita income, and to decline more steeply than otherwise. In a two-country comparison, we find that power-intensive manufacturing subsectors have expanded more rapidly in Indonesia, where electricity prices have been low, whereas Philippine manufacturing has shifted toward less power intensive and more labor-intensive subsectors in the face of high electricity prices.
Q40|The Impact of Public Health Insurance on Medical Utilization in a Vulnerable Population: Evidence from COFA Migrants|In March of 2015, the State of Hawaii stopped covering the vast majority of migrants from countries belonging to the Compact of Free Association (COFA) in the state Medicaid program. As a result COFA migrants were required to obtain private insurance in health insurance exchanges established under the Affordable Care Act. Using statewide administrative hospital discharge data, we show that Medicaid-funded hospitalizations and emergency room visits declined in this population by 69% and 42% after the expiration of Medicaid eligibility. Utilization funded by private insurance did increase but not enough to offset the declines in publicly-funded utilization. This resulted in a net decrease in utilization. In addition, we show that uninsured ER visits increased as a consequence of the expiration of Medicaid benefits. Paradoxically, we also find a substantial increase in Medicaid-funded ER visits by infants after the expiration of benefits which is consistent with a substitution of ER visits for ambulatory care for the very young.
Q40|Policies to Overcome Barriers for Renewable Energy Distributed Generation: A Case Study of Utility Structure and Regulatory Regimes in Michigan|Because of its environmental damage and now often being the most expensive source for electricity production, coal use is declining throughout the United States. Michigan has no active coal mining and seemingly supportive legislation for distributed generation (DG) and renewable energy (RE) technologies. However, Michigan still derives approximately half of its power production from large centralized coal plants, despite the availability of much lower cost RE DG technologies. To understand this conundrum, this study reviews how Michigan investor owned utilities utilize their political power to perpetuate utility structures that work toward the financial interests of the utilities rather than the best interests of the state’s electricity consumers, including other firms and residents. Background is provided covering the concept of DG, the cost savings associated with DG, and utility regulatory regimes at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Recent case studies from specific utility strategies are provided in order to illustrate how Michigan utilities manipulate regulatory regimes via policy misinterpretation to deter or hinder the proliferation of DG in favor of maintaining the existing interests in centralized, fossil fuel-based electrical energy production. The results of this study demonstrate how DG proliferation is hindered by Michigan regulated utilities via the exercise of political power within existing legal and regulatory regimes. This highlights the need to think about how utilities may interpret and implement rules when designing energy legislation and policy to maximize the benefits for consumers and society. Policy recommendations and alternate strategies are provided to help enhance the role of energy policy to improve rather than limit the utilization of RE DG.
Q40|Past and present outage costs – A follow-up study of households’ willingness to pay to avoid power outages|Households’ demand for electricity continues to increase. This trend per se should indicate increased disutility from power outages. On the other hand, batteries and other back-up systems have been improved and the frequency and duration of outages have been reduced in many countries. By comparing the results from two stated preference studies on Swedish households’ willingness to pay to avoid power outages in 2004 and 2017, we investigate whether the willingness to pay has changed. The willingness to pay is assessed for power outages of different durations, and whether it is planned or unplanned. We find three main differences: i) The proportion of households stating zero willingness to pay to avoid power outages decreased significantly from 2004 to 2017 and ii) the overall WTP was considerably higher in 2017 than in 2014, but iii) the WTP for duration of an outage has decreased. These results have implications for how regulators incentivize and regulate electricity suppliers since they suggest that a reliable supply of electricity is of greater importance now than what earlier studies have suggested.
Q40|Optimal environmental border adjustments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade|We consider the legal and economic context for border adjustments that might be used to augment subglobal carbon abatement. Following Markusen (1975) we establish optimal border policy in the presence of cross-border environmental damages. The optimal border policy includes a strategic component that is inconsistent with legal commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Incorporating GATT compliance into the theory indicates an optimal border adjustment that taxes the carbon content of trade below the domestic carbon price. This theoretic finding is in contrast to the standard advice to impose the domestic carbon price on the carbon content of trade. The wedge between the domestic carbon price and the optimal environmental border adjustment occurs in general equilibrium because border adjustments inadvertently drive up consumption of emissions intensive goods in unregulated regions. We conclude our analysis with numeric simulations of Annex-I carbon policy. We find an optimal import tariff on the carbon content of aluminum that is on the order of 50% of the domestic carbon price. Countries that impose border carbon adjustments at the domestic carbon price will be extracting rents from unregulated regions at the expense of efficient environmental policy and consistency with international law.
Q40|Defining and measuring energy poverty in Poland|The EU Member States are obliged to assess the scale of energy poverty in their respective national contexts. We propose a new definition of energy poverty in Poland, with different levels of specificity corresponding to the needs of different levels of administration. We also propose a set of five indicators for measuring energy poverty based on data from the Polish Household Budget Survey. Two expenditure-based indicators identify energy-poor households: a modified version of the Low Income High Cost indicator and an indicator based on actual energy expenditures. Three self-reported indicators related to financial capability, the physical condition of the dwelling, and the subjective level of thermal comfort are used to measure the severity of energy poverty. We find that all five indicators show that the older the dwelling is, the higher the risk of energy poverty is. Moreover, while the expenditure-based measures show that households living in detached houses have higher energy poverty rates than households living in multifamily buildings, the thermal comfort indicator shows the opposite relationship. Households living in dwellings without central heating are at a higher risk of energy poverty, according to all self-reported indicators.
Q40|Measuring energy poverty in Poland with the Multidimensional Energy Poverty Index|Energy poverty is a complex problem that is generally caused by having a low income, having high energy costs, and/or living in a home with low energy efficiency. Various indicators capture these factors, but there is no consensus among researchers on which is the best one, or on how to combine them. Thus, poverty mapping and policy planning would benefit from having access to a unitary index of poverty. We have created a multidimensional energy poverty index using the methodology proposed by Alkire and Foster (2008). The index accounts for five dimensions of energy deprivation: two objective indicators of “low income, high costs” and “high share of energy expenditure in income”, as well as three subjective indicators of “inability to keep the home adequately warm”, “presence of leaks, damp, or rot” and “difficulties paying utility bills”. We define households as poor if at least two forms of deprivation are present. We apply our index to Poland using Household Budget Survey data. We find that in 2017, 10% of households in Poland suffered from multidimensional energy poverty, and that about half of these households were also income-poor. Households living in buildings built before 1946, households living in rural areas, and households that were dependent on retirement and disability pensions or on unearned sources of income were at especially high risk of energy poverty.
Q40|A CLEWS Nexus Modeling Approach to Assess Water Security Trajectories and Infrastructure Needs in Latin America and the Caribbean|This working paper presents an up-to-date and prospective assessment of water security throughout the LAC region with a focus on infrastructure needs, to aid in strategic thinking towards planning and management in key water-using sectors such as agriculture, energy and water supply. This assessment is grounded on a physically-based analysis of water supply and demand, highlights the climate-land-energy-water-socioeconomics (CLEWS) nexus contributions to water security in the region, and addresses uncertainty in projections and their implications through a variety of potential future scenarios of climate change and socioeconomic development in the region.
Q40|Effects of Electrification on the Production and Distribution in the Coal Industry: Evidence from 1900s Japan|This paper studies how electrification affected the economic performance and industrial relations of the Japanese coal mining industry in the 1900s. We find that electrification considerably improved productivity and increased the number of workers, but had statistically zero effects on minersâ€™ wages and significantly declined the labor income share, using difference-in-differences estimation. We explain this phenomenon by using the â€œsuperstar firmâ€ hypothesis, which provides a consistent explanation of the recent declines in labor income share in the US economy.
Q40|What Explains Cross-City Variation in Mortality During the 1918 Influenza Pandemic? Evidence from 438 U.S. Cities|Disparities in cross-city pandemic severity during the 1918 Influenza Pandemic remain poorly understood. This paper uses newly assembled historical data on annual mortality across 438 U.S. cities to explore the determinants of pandemic mortality. We assess the role of three broad factors: i) pre-pandemic population health and poverty, ii) air pollution, and iii) the timing of onset and proximity to military bases. Using regression analysis, we find that cities in the top tercile of the distribution of pre-pandemic infant mortality had 21 excess deaths per 10,000 residents in 1918 relative to cities in the bottom tercile. Similarly, cities in the top tercile of the distribution of proportion of illiterate residents had 21.3 excess deaths per 10,000 residents during the pandemic relative to cities in the bottom tercile. Cities in the top tercile of the distribution of coal-fired electricity generating capacity, an important source of urban air pollution, had 9.1 excess deaths per 10,000 residents in 1918 relative to cities in the bottom tercile. There was no statistically significant relationship between excess mortality and city proximity to World War I bases or the timing of onset. Together the three statistically significant factors accounted for 50 percent of cross-city variation in excess mortality in 1918.
Q40|Who Benefits from Local Oil and Gas Employment? Labor Market Composition in the Oil and Gas Industry in Texas|This paper examines local labor market outcomes from an oil and gas boom. We examine two main outcomes across gender, race, and ethnicity: the probability of employment in the oil and gas industry and the log wages of workers employed outside the oil and gas industry. We find that men and women both gain employment in the oil and gas industry during booms, but such gains are much larger for men and are largest for black and Hispanic men. We also find positive income spillovers for workers in other industries that are similar in magnitude across demographic groups.
Q40|Do Workers Benefit from Resource Booms in Their Home State? Evidence from the Fracking Era|Fracking innovations revolutionized the United States oil and gas industry and facilitated a boom in energy production in states with oil and gas resources. This paper examines effects of oil and gas booms within a state on individual employment and earnings. To account for endogenous migration decisions, we instrument for oil and gas production in workers’ state of residence via the predicted percent of oil and gas employment in their state of birth. We find statistically significant and economically meaningful positive effects. The bulk of the effects accrue to workers employed outside the oil and gas industry indicating sizable spillovers.
Q40|Energy Use in Japanese Copper Industry from the Meiji Period to WWI|In recent years, energy constraints are discussed from a historical point of view. This study aims at examining the copper industry's energy use in Japan from the Meiji period to the time of WWI and clarifying the process of, and reasons for, the energy source selection. This study considered not only energy use in the large-scale mines but also energy use in the small-scale mines and miners' homes. As a result, it was clarified that the mines changed into a space that is based on a diverse combination of energy depending on differences in location (access to energy), natural conditions, financial power, the required amount and price of energy, energy use technologies, ore quality, and end-product (usage).
Q40|Why Has China Overinvested in Coal Power?|Since 2005, the Chinese government has engaged in an ambitious effort to move China’s energy system away from coal and towards more environmentally friendly sources of energy. However, China’s investment in coal power has accelerated sharply in recent years, raising concerns of massive overcapacity and undermining the central policy goal of promoting cleaner energy. In this paper, we ask why China engaged in such a pronounced investment boom in coal power in the mid-2010s. We find the protective rules under which China’s coal power industry has historically operated have made excessive investment extremely likely unless the central government serves as a “gatekeeper,” slowing and limiting investment in the face of incentives for socially excessive entry. When coal-power project approval authority was decentralized from the central government to local governments at the end of 2014, the gate was lifted and approval time considerably shortened, allowing investment to flood into the market. We construct a simple economic model that elucidates the effects of key policies on coal power investment, and examine the model’s predictions using coal-power project approval records from 2013 to 2016. We find the approval rate of coal power is about 3 times higher when the approval authority is decentralized, and provinces with larger coal industries tend to approve more coal power. We estimate that local coal production accounts for an additional 54GW of approved coal power in 2015 (other things equal), which is about 1/4 of total approved capacity in that year.
Q40|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy|There is widespread agreement among economists – and a diverse set of other policy analysts – that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap and trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|Technology heterogeneity in European industries' energy efficiency performance. The role of climate, greenhouse gases, path dependence and energy mix|Assessment of industrial-level energy efficiency development is a critical research topic that has infiltrated in the global battle against climate change. A balanced panel of fourteen European industries from twenty-four countries for the period 1995-2011 is introduced into a metafrontier framework. Reflecting the divergent views on the importance of desirable and undesirable outcomes in the pursuit of energy efficiency, the proposed approach estimate industrial performance by prioritizing either economic or environmental criterion incorporating technological heterogeneity. It is found that small-scale economies exhibit persistent high energy efficiency scores. Regarding energy efficiency determinants, path dependence phenomena have a strong presence, climate characteristics occurs, while energy mix displays linear but also non-linear relationships. Finally, regardless of the method employed, there is a strong evidence of conditional and unconditional convergence.
Q40|An alternative probabilistic frontier analysis to the measurement of eco-efficiency|This study applies a nonparametric time dependent conditional frontier model to estimate and evaluate the convergence in eco-efficiency of a group of 51 US states over the period 1990-2017. Specifically, we utilize a mixture of global and local pollutants (carbon dioxide CO2, sulphur dioxide SO2 and nitrogen oxides NOx) to capture the environmental damage caused by the anthropogenic activities. The empirical findings indicate divergence for the whole sample, while specific groups of convergence club regions are formulated dividing the US states into worst and best performers. Moreover, Our findings reveal significant convergence patterns between the US regions over the sample period.
Q40|Examining eco-efficiency convergence of European Industries.The existence of technological spillovers within a metafrontier framework|European policies regarding global warming have been outspread the last few decades with many initiatives for industrial production process. In this paper we model eco-efficiency performance under a meta-frontier framework for 14 industries from the manufacturing sector from 27 European countries over the 1995-2011 period. The utilization of NOx, SOx, CO2, CH4, N2O, CO, NMVOC and NH3 as undesirable outputs and GVA as the desirable represent the impact of of economic activities on the environment. In the first stage, we estimate eco-efficiency using the conventional Directional Distance Function (DDF) as well as the non-radial DDF approach. In the second stage of analysis, we investigate the existence of conditional and unconditional convergence according to several methodologies. Our eco-efficiency estimates provide a distinct behavior for energy intensive European industries. Moreover, a decline occurs for the majority of them. In addition, our results using distributional dynamics approach and the recent approach of Philips and Sul (2007) supports the non-convergence hypothesis and the creation of distinct clubs. Finally, the establishment of a catch up index indicate an increase in a speed of convergence.
Q40|Power generation portfolios: A parametric formulation of the efficient frontier|The Portfolio Theory has been extensively used as a planning tool for power generation diversification. However, no one of the existing papers provide a detailed explanation on how the efficient frontier of the Power Generation Portfolio (PGP) is costructed. We provide a parametric formulation of the efficient frontier of PGP of up to 5 technologies. The analysys takes advantages of the fact that the risk of the PGP is a convex function of the shares of the different technologies. The parametric formulation of the efficient frontier of the PGP constitutes a powerfull policy tool for power generation policy-makers.
Q40|The Relevance of Crude Oil Prices on Natural Gas Pricing Expectations: A Dynamic Model Based Empirical Study|The natural gas price is an important and often decisive variable for economic policy makers. Many studies have been developed in order to establish a stochastic process that can represent the movements or the returns of natural gas prices or variations of such prices time series to forecast price expectations. This work aims to study the relationship between natural gas and crude oil prices in the international market, proposing to investigate its nature and long term equilibrium, through the development of adequate econometric models for determining future expectations of major natural gas price benchmarks, or of their returns. In order to accomplish this, time series for both benchmark crude oil and natural gas prices are subjected to statistical tests with the purpose of verifying the underlying hypotheses behind the appropriate autoregressive dynamic models. The conditional heteroskedasticity and non-normality of the return series, which are prevalent characteristics in energy markets, are considered when elaborating these models. To reach the purpose of this work weekly natural gas and crude oil prices benchmarks traded in the international market were collected.
Q40|Fukushima and German Energy Policy 2005 - 2015/2016|The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in 2011 led to some drastic reactions in Germany, in particular an immediate shut-downof older nuclear power plants. This event is therefore often seen as a turning point, or a major accelerator for the German Energiewende. We investigate the short term effects, but also put the event into a longer, 10-year perspective. This shows that hardly any trend in the energy policy was strongly affected by policy decisions of 2011. Major trends are the increase of renewable electricity sources, the phase out of nuclear, a slight increase in energy efficiency, while total energy consumption and also greenhouse gas emissions remained stable in the decade 2005-2015/16. We also provide some tentative explanations for these developments.
Q40|Air Quality and Asthma Hospitalization: Evidence of PM2.5 Concentrations in Pennsylvania Counties|According to the World Health Organization, 235 million people around the world currently suffer from asthma, which includes approximately 25 million in the United States. There is substantial epidemiological evidence indicating linkages between outdoor air pollution and asthma symptoms, more specifically between concentrations of particulate matter and asthma. Using county level data for 2001-2014, a spatial panel framework is imposed based upon prevailing wind patterns to investigate the direct and indirect impacts of PM2.5 concentration levels on asthma hospitalization in Pennsylvania. This model controls for population density, precipitation, smoking rate, and population demographic variables. Results show that PM2.5 concentrations as measured at the county level have positive direct and indirect effects on asthma hospitalization. A one-unit increase in PM2.5 in one Pennsylvania county will add, on average $1.29M ($754,656 direct and $539,040 indirect) to total annual asthma hospitalization costs with the state of Pennsylvania. This study highlights the need for realistic and accurate impact analyses of ambient air pollution on asthma that reflects the impacts on neighboring regions as well. In order to capture the spillover effects of health-related impacts from PM2.5 pollution, a wind direction algorithm to identify appropriate neighbors is important.
Q40|Economic and environmental impacts of UK offshore wind development to 2029: the importance of local content|The continuing development of the offshore wind sector is an important element of UK energy and industrial policy since it holds the potential of substantial emissions reductions while simultaneously boosting economic activity. A central idea here is that the economic impact of the offshore wind sector can be enhanced by increasing the local content of its inputs. We explore, through simulation of a purpose-built Input-Output model of the UK, the economic and emissions impacts of the likely future development of the UKâ€™s offshore wind sector, with a particular emphasis on the importance of local content. We explore six scenarios all of which embed the capacity expansion anticipated by the Sector Deal, but differ in terms of local content â€“ including a set of illustrative simulations considering the possible impact of Brexit on local content. We find that future offshore wind development does indeed generate a â€œdouble dividendâ€ in the form of simultaneous and substantial reductions in emissions and improvements in economic activity. It is also the case that, as anticipated, the scale of the economic stimulus arising from offshore wind development is directly and strongly related to the extent of local content.
Q40|Subjective Probabilistic Expectations, Indoor Air Pollution, and Health: Evidence from cooking fuel use patterns in India|An increasing number of empirical studies have investigated the determinants of cooking fuel choice in developing countries, where health risk from indoor air pollution is one of the most important issues. We contribute to this stream of literature by examining individuals f subjective probabilistic expectations about health risks when using different types of fuel and their influence on cooking fuel usage patterns. We also explore how these patterns, in turn, affect health status. Using data collected from 557 rural Indian households, we find that subjective probabilistic expectations of becoming sick from dirty fuel usage have a negative influence on the fraction of days with dirty fuel usage in the household. The results also show that dirty fuel usage degrades the health of the individual. We then examine the effectiveness of information provision regarding the health risks of dirty/clean fuel usage. Our simulation demonstrates that although the provision of information results in statistically significant changes in the households f cooking fuel usage patterns and in the individuals f health status, the changes may be small in size.
Q40|Umsetzung der europäischen Binnenmarktrichtlinie für Elektrizität (96/92/EG) und deren wettbewerbliche Folgen|Gegenstand dieser Arbeit sind die Auswirkungen der Liberalisierung der europäischen Strommärkte. Einen Schwerpunkt bildet dabei die Beschreibung des deutschen Marktes, wobei den Schwierigkeiten der Stadtwerke ein eigener Abschnitt gewidmet ist. Diese Unternehmen stehen seit der völligen Marktöffnung aus verschiedenen Gründen besonders unter Druck, allerdings existieren auch mehrere Gründe, die das in den Medien häufig zitierte und befürchtete „Stadtwerkesterben“ als übertrieben erscheinen lassen. Abschließend wird gezeigt, wie andere EU-Länder ihre Märkte öffneten. Während Großbritannien und die skandinavischen Staaten sich als sehr vorbildlich erwiesen haben, stellt Frankreich das unrühmliche Negativbeispiel dar. Dieses Land hat erst nach über einem Jahr Verzögerung langsam angefangen, seinen zentralistisch-monopolistisch strukturierten Markt anderen Anbietern zugänglich zu machen.
Q40|Do sustainable energy policies matter for reducing greenhouse gas emissions?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q40|Do Workers Benefit from Resource Booms in Their Home State? Evidence from the Fracking Era|Fracking innovations revolutionized the United States oil and gas industry and facilitated a boom in energy production in states with oil and gas resources. This paper examines effects of oil and gas booms within a state on individual employment and earnings. To account for endogenous migration decisions, we instrument for oil and gas production in workers' state of residence via the predicted percent of oil and gas employment in their state of birth. We find statistically significant and economically meaningful positive effects. The bulk of the effects accrue to workers employed outside the oil and gas industry indicating sizable spillovers.
Q40|An empirical investigation on the distributional impact of network charges in Germany|The increase in network costs within the German electricity grid, due to a rising share of renewable energy generation, has led to higher network charges in recent years. We use socioeconomic data in order to investigate distributional effects within the period 2010-2016, and employ three different inequality metrics - the Gini coefficient, the Theil index and the Atkinson index - all of which unambiguously indicate regressive effects of network charges. The three metrics show an increase of economic inequality of at least 0.6 % when accounting for network charges. This finding is due to 1. the relative inferiority of electricity, 2. the regressive impact of a fixed component of network charges, 3. considerable regional disparities, and 4. the higher prevalence of prosumers within high-income households.
Q40|Does financial compensation increase the acceptance of power lines? Evidence from Germany|Although public support for renewable energy promotion in Germany is strong, the required power line construction has incited a groundswell of opposition from residents concerned about the impacts on their neighborhoods. This paper evaluates a large randomized one-shot binary-choice experiment to examine the effect of different compensation schemes on the acceptance of new power line construction. Results reveal that community compensations have no bearing on the acceptance level, whereas personal compensations have a negative effect. Two possible channels through which financial compensation reduces the willingness-to-accept are (1) crowding out of intrinsic motivation to support the construction project and (2) a signaling effect that alerts residents to potential negative impacts of the power lines. Both explanations call into question the efficacy of financial payments to decrease local opposition.
Q40|Debt and the Oil Industry - Analysis on the Firm and Production Level|This paper analyzes the relationship between debt and the production decision of companies active in the exploration and production of oil and gas in the United States. Over the last couple of years, the development and application of innovative extraction methods, like hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, led to a considerable increase in United States (US) oil production. In connection with these technological changes, another important economic development in the oil industry was largely debt-driven investment in the oil sector. The extensive use of debt was fostered by the macroeconomic environment of low interest rates and investors searching for yield in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Additionally, the rising prices in the commodities markets until mid 2014 led to higher asset valuation and thus to higher return expectations fueling a virtuous circle. This increased investment activity, especially in the US, raised the production capacity and as a consequence contributed to a higher production of oil and natural gas. This trend continued in spite of the oil price decline in 2014, whereas the oil price slump in 2008 led to a reduction in oil production, which seems to be the more plausible reaction. The aim of this paper can be split into two research questions. The first research question is whether debt and leverage affects production decisions of companies active in the exploration and production (E&P) of crude oil and natural gas. The second research question then is, if the technological changes in the industry and the increased indebtedness of US oil companies led to a markedly different reaction in their production decision following 2014 compared to the similar price decline in 2008. A potential reason for the absence or delay in cutting back production after the price drop in 2014 could be supposedly higher levels of debt prior to the price decline. These questions are addressed applying the relatively new panel vector autoregressive (VAR) approach to a novel dataset combining financial data on publicly listed firms and their production data on well level.
Q40|Market liberalization: Price dispersion, price discrimination and consumer search in the German electricity markets|We study how consumer search affects pricing in markets with incumbents and entrants using panel data on German electricity retail markets. Consumers observe the baseline price of the incumbent and decide whether or not to search. Incumbent providers can price discriminate between searching and loyal consumers. Empirically we show that local incumbents increase their baseline rate while entrants decrease their tariffs if consumer search increases. Moreover, the incumbent price discriminates more strongly in markets with more consumer search. Using a theoretical model, we show that these pricing patterns are consistent with the strategic interaction of profit-maximizing firms.
Q40|Monetary Policy, Oil Stabilization Fund and the Dutch Disease|This paper contributes to the literature on the Dutch disease effect in a small open oil exporting economy. Specifically, our contribution to the literature is twofold. On the one hand, we formulate a DSGE model in line with the balanced-growth path theory. On the other hand, besides alternative monetary rules, the model introduces an oil stabilization fund, an oil price rule, and a fiscal rule. Our aim is to analyze to what extent the combinations between our alternative monetary rules and fiscal policy are effective to prevent a Dutch disease effect in the aftermath of a positive oil price shock. Our main findings show that the Dutch disease, through the spending effect, occurs only in the case of inflation targeting regime. An expansionary fiscal policy contributes to improve the state of the economy through its impact on the productivity of the manufacturing sector.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|On the study of conditional dependence structure between oil, gold and USD exchange rates|Energy commodities and precious metals differ from other trading products. In fact, both oil and gold prices are leading economic variables and drive the evolution of the world economy. Since the US dollar is used as the primary currency of international crude oil and gold trading, the relationship between commodities, metals and exchange rates became a major research agenda recently. Therefore, this study proposes a Nested copula based GARCH models to explore the dependence structure between oil, gold and USD exchange rate. More importantly, a comparative framework based on three sub-periods is implemented to capture the co-movement during normal and crisis period. Empirical results suggest that for both crisis period the dependence between oil, gold and USD exchange rate is stronger comparing with the dependence during the untroubled period. Moreover, the co-movement is accelerated which is explained by the unusual movement of USD during the global financial crisis of 2007–2009.
Q40|The Asymmetric Responses of Stock Markets|This study investigates how various Economic Integration Agreements between Turkey and its trading partners affected the exports of machinery during 1998~2013. In addition, it differentiates between trade in parts and components and finished products, and assesses the effects of Economic Integration Agreements separately on these two types of goods. Using a discrete-time probit model with random effects, we show that an Economic Integration Agreement increases the survival of export relations which were initiated before the agreement. It is found to be reasonably heterogeneous, that is, the effect is found to be larger for parts and components exports occurring within the Global Production Networks compared to finished products exports.
Q40|Monetary Policy, Oil Stabilization Fund and the Dutch Disease|This paper contributes to the literature on the Dutch disease effect in a small open oil exporting economy. Specifically, our contribution to the literature is twofold. On the one hand, we formulate a DSGE model in line with the balanced-growth path theory. On the other hand, besides alternative monetary rules, the model introduces an oil stabilization fund, an oil price rule, and a fiscal rule. Our aim is to analyze to what extent the combinations between our alternative monetary rules and fiscal policy are effective to prevent a Dutch disease effect in the aftermath of a positive oil price shock. Our main findings show that the Dutch disease, through the spending effect, occurs only in the case of inflation targeting regime. An expansionary fiscal policy contributes to improve the state of the economy through its impact on the productivity of the manufacturing sector.
Q40|The geopolitical impact of Nord Stream 2|We investigate the geopolitical impact and the possible consequences of the construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. We model the European gas network as a cooperative game between regions as players over the pipeline network, where LNG is also treated as a separate player. We focus on the change of influence of the players in three different scenarios. We investigate how the power of the agents shift when the Nord Stream pipeline is expanded, when the Ukrainian pipeline is shut down and finally when both of these happen. Our calculations show that when Nord Stream 2 is operational, Russia and Western Europe improve their position compared to the base scenario, while other suppliers, notably Norway, together with Central, Eastern and Southern Europe suffer losses, especially when the Ukrainian route is dismissed. The results highlight that both the supporters and adversaries of Nord Stream 2 are governed by self-interest and solidarity and trust, the values proclaimed by the EU and the Energy Union, remain but a slogan.
Q40|Do Markets Trump Politics? Evidence from Fossil Market Reactions to the Paris Agreement and the U.S. Election|The Paris Agreement was acclaimed as a milestone for climate negotiations. It has also been criticized – as too soft by environmentalists and too constraining by the current U.S. administration, which has decided to leave. The election of President Trump was itself widely interpreted as unexpected, good news for the fossil industry (and less good for the climate). We seek to evaluate the impact of global climate policy making by studying its effect on the stock market value of energy sector firms. In particular, we study the signing of the Paris Agreement and the latest U.S. presidential election. Using event study and impulse indicator saturation methods, we show that both events had only moderate effects.
Q40|The energy transition in the Swedish iron and steel sector, 1800-1939|This article analyses the particular energy transition of the Swedish iron and steel sector (1800- 1939), a relevant actor in the European context during the nineteenth and twenteenth century. The Swedish iron and steel sector is an interesting case to analyse in the perspective of energy transition and the composition and change of the capital stock (classified by energy technology). An in-depth study of the change of the capital stock in the sector will enable us to study the dynamics of energy transition; moreover, the Swedish iron and steel sector, with particular emphasis in technology adoption, lock-in carbon infrastructure and energy transitions is a powerful tool to understand current difficulties to change our infrastructure towards cleaner energy sources.
Q40|How effective is lithium recycling as a remedy for resource scarcity?|We investigate to what extent recycling can remedy resource scarcity, and whether market intervention is desired. For doing so, we develop a dynamic model of the global lithium market. An efficient market for resource waste allows consumers to internalize the waste value when they buy the resource. In the analytical part of our paper, we show that the efficient market can alternatively be realized through a proper set of worldwide subsidies to either buyers or sellers of both virgin and recycled lithium. In our numerical simulations, we find that optimal subsidies may become quite substantial in the second half of this century. The size of these subsidies depends, however, on a number of uncertain assumptions such as technological progress in both extraction and recycling, quality-grade of recovered lithium, and demand elasticity.
Q40|Importance of Demand and Supply Shocks for Oil Price Variations|This paper studies the importance of demand and supply shocks in the oil market, and tries to explain the formation of the short-run oil price by applying an extended commodity storage model to the cyclical components of the price. First, I employ a multivariate method to extract the cyclical component of the oil price, world oil consumption, and global GDP. Next, I ﬁnd a large and positive eﬀect of global GDP shock on the oil price cycles in a VAR model. Then, I estimate the commodity storage model using a moment-matching method. All parameters are estimated signiﬁcantly, and the model shows good capability of reproducing the volatility and persistence of oil pricecycles. IﬁndthattheGDPshockgeneratesamuchmoremoderateeﬀectontheoil price cycles in the extended commodity storage model than the empirical evidence from the VAR analysis, and the production shock plays an important role for the variance of the cyclical component of the oil price.
Q40|Dynamic Corrective Taxes with Time-Varying Salience|The intermittency of payment for many goods creates a disconnect between paying and consuming such that the marginal price is not always salient when consumption decisions are made. This paper derives optimal dynamic corrective taxes when there are externalities as well as internalities from inattention and persistence in consumption across periods. Our optimal taxes address dynamic inefficiencies that are not captured in static models of inattention. We also characterize a second-best constant tax and the excess burden associated with time-invariant tax rates. We then calibrate the model to U.S. residential electricity consumption.
Q40|Bank Liquidity, Credit Supply, and the Environment|The paper evaluates the impact of the credit conditions facing corporations on their emissions of toxic air pollutants. Exploiting cross-county, cross-time shale discoveries that generated liquidity windfalls at local bank branches, it constructs measures of (1) the degree to which banks in non-shale counties, i.e., counties where shale was not discovered, receive liquidity shocks through their branches in shale counties and (2) the degree to which a corporation in a non-shale county has a relationship lender that receives liquidity shocks through its branches. From both the county- and firm-level analyses, the paper discovers that positive shocks to credit conditions reduce corporate pollution.
Q40|How Effective is Energy-efficient Housing?: Evidence From a Field Experiment in Mexico|This paper evaluates a field experiment in Mexico in which a quasi-experimental sample of new homes was provided with insulation and other energy efficient upgrades. A novel feature of our study is that we deploy large numbers of data loggers which allow us to measure temperature and humidity at high frequency inside homes. We find that the upgrades had no detectable impact on electricity use or thermal comfort, and this is true both in summer and non-summer months. These results stand in contrast to the engineering estimates that predicted up to a 26% decrease in electricity use. Part of the explanation is that air conditioner ownership is lower than expected, thus reducing the potential for reductions in energy use. In addition, we document that most households have their windows open on hot days, nullifying the thermal benefits of roof and wall insulation.
Q40|Dynamic corrective taxes with time-varying salience|The intermittency of payment for many goods creates a disconnect between paying and consuming such that the marginal price is not always salient when consumption decisions are made. This paper derives optimal dynamic corrective taxes when there are externalities as well as internalities from inattention and persistence in consumption across periods. Our optimal taxes address dynamic inefficiencies that are not captured in static models of inattention. We also characterize a second-best constant tax and the excess burden associated with time-invariant tax rates. We then calibrate the model to U.S. residential electricity consumption.
Q40|Policy Evolution under the Clean Air Act|The U.S. Clean Air Act, passed in 1970 with strong bipartisan support, was the first environmental law to give the Federal government a serious regulatory role, established the architecture of the U.S. air pollution control system, and became a model for subsequent environmental laws in the United States and globally. We outline the Act's key provisions, as well as the main changes Congress has made to it over time. We assess the evolution of air pollution control policy under the Clean Air Act, with particular attention to the types of policy instruments used. We provide a generic assessment of the major types of policy instruments, and we trace and assess the historical evolution of EPA's policy instrument use, with particular focus on the increased use of market-based policy instruments, beginning in the 1970s and culminating in the 1990s. Over the past fifty years, air pollution regulation has gradually become much more complex, and over the past twenty years, policy debates have become increasingly partisan and polarized, to the point that it has become impossible to amend the Act or pass other legislation to address the new threat of climate change.
Q40|Are Energy Executives Rewarded For Luck?|In an influential paper, Bertrand and Mullainathan (2001) show that energy executives are rewarded for high oil prices, which they term pay-for-luck. Almost twenty years later, performance-based pay as a portion of executive compensation has nearly doubled; total executive compensation has also nearly doubled; and new disclosure laws and tax rules have changed the regulatory landscape. In this paper, we examine whether their results and their interpretation continue to hold in this changing environment. We find that executive compensation at U.S. oil and gas companies is still closely tied to oil prices, indicating that executives continue to be rewarded for luck despite the increased availability of more sophisticated compensation mechanisms. This finding is robust to including time-varying controls for the firms' scale of operations, and it holds not only for total executive compensation but also for several of the separate individuals components of compensation, including bonuses. Moreover, we show there is less pay-for-luck in better-governed companies, and that pay-for-luck is asymmetric – rising with increasing oil prices more than it falls with decreasing oil prices. These patterns are more consistent with rent extraction by executives than with maximizing shareholder value.
Q40|The diffusion of a policy innovation in the energy sector: evidence from the collective switching case in Europe|This paper investigates the factors that influence the dissemination of an energy policy innovation, the collective switching, adopting the business ecosystem as unit of analysis. Collective switching is a new phenomenon that recent literature has not yet investigated. It is characterised by a group of people with common characteristics that, through an intermediary, negotiates with the energy suppliers and, thanks to its bargaining power, is able to obtain advantageous contracts. The 6C framework is adopted in order to perform a cross-country analysis oriented to single out differences in the collective switching ecosystems. Through a comparative case study analysis, which examines in rich detail 11 European countriesâ€™ collective switching campaigns, this work provides an accurate description of the collective switching business ecosystem and the ways it reacts to a policy innovation. Semi-structured interviews, conducted with consumer associations that organised collective switching campaigns, provide insights for the definition of some policy interventions.
Q40|Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC): A Review of Theoretical and Empirical literature|The Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) conjecture seeks to establish an inverted U-shaped nexus between income per capita and environmental degradation. It posits that at early stages of economic growth and development, environmental degradation rises or increases at an increasing rate. Nonetheless, after some threshold of economic development, the co-movement tends to reverse at higher levels of economic progress.
Q40|A mixed integer linear programming model to regulate the electricity sector|Abstract This paper presents a mixed-integer linear programming model for the optimal long-term electricity planning of the Greek wholesale generation system. In order to capture more accurately the technical characteristics of the problem, we have divided the Greek territory into a number of individual interacted networks (geographical zones). In the next stage we solve the system of equations and provide simulation results for the daily/hourly energy prices based on the different scenarios adopted. The empirical findings reveal an inverted-M shaped curve for electricity demand in Greece, while the system marginal price curve also follows a non-linear pattern. Lastly, given the simulations results, we provide the necessary policy implications for government officials, regulators and the rest of the marketers.
Q40|Environment and Sustainable Development|The severity of environmental problems and their socio-economic effects are important research issues as pollution and damages are local or global externalities implying market failures when in most of the cases the sources of pollution do not consider the full cost (including the related social costs) caused to others by their actions. Managing the various environmental problems and their associated implications is of interest to decision makers. Estimates of damage costs and a variety of other issues connected to changes in environmental quality and having to do with the importance of uncertainty and risk aversion are essential issues open to discussion. Furthermore, setting up competent policies requires cautious consideration of each source of pollution. For this reason, various features in the use of sufficient policies to cope with the various environmental problems, like people’s awareness of environmental use and non-use values, institutional frameworks and similar concerns have to be considered. Policies to handle pollution and the related degradation have to take into account both the specific economic conditions as well as the structure of the associated sectors of each region.
Q40|Advances in Green Economy and Sustainability: Introduction|The environment is changing in a dynamic way. Sustainable development consists of both natural environmental changes as well as changes caused by humans. Nowadays environmental changes occur more often and much quicker and these changes challenge ecosystems and human societies. The aim of this special issue is to address the achievement of sustainable development by addressing the current issues of concern. Specifically, the green economy concept is an important term in international agendas. Together with the current economic crisis and the view that policies to attain sustainability cannot be put into operation efficiently, policy makers anticipate a solution from the greening of the economy. Green growth, more energy efficiency, cleaner energy technologies and sustainable development are regularly considered as harmonizing goals by international policy makers.
Q40|The Effect of House Energy Efficiency Costs on the Participation Rate and Investment Amount of Lower-Income Households|We examine the largest house energy efficiency retrofit support program in Greece that ran during 2011-2015 and approximately fifty thousand households participated. We take advantage of an exogenous change that occurred while the program was running. This change substantially increased the subsidy rate for lower-income households. We find that this effective cost reduction increased the participation rate (extensive margin) and investment amount (intensive margin) of these lower-income households.
Q40|An environmentally sustainable global economy. A coopetitive model|This paper proposes a model representing a global economy which aims to become environmentally sustainable. The model looks both at the production side and the consumption side of the economy. Regarding the production side, the suggested model considers investment and innovation in climate technologies, whereas on the side of the consumption it takes into account economic and policy instruments to change the patterns of consumption of the households. The model follows a game theory approach and applies a theoretical framework à la Cournot. The results of the paper are the following: the model provides win-win solutions, namely strategic situations in which each country takes advantages by cooperating and competing at the same time within the global economy, and where each country gets a positive return. In fact, the model shows the convenience for each country to cooperate and suggests the implementation of policies in order to satisfy the basic requirements of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in terms of production, consumption and climate change.
Q40|Stretching the Duck's Neck: The effect of climate change on future electricity demand|This paper examines how climate change will affect both the level and timing of future electricity demand across Canada. Using an original dataset of hourly electricity demand across all Canadian provinces combined with household-level microdata on air conditioner ownership, we estimate temperature responsiveness including both the direct effect of temperature on demand for cooling services, as well as the indirect effect of increasing the stock of temperature-sensitive durables, such as air conditioners. We find only a small increase in total demand by end-century, although the result differs across provinces. The small aggregate result reflects the mitigating effect of rising temperature in a cold country such as Canada, whereby increases in electricity demand for air conditioning as summer temperatures rise is largely offset by reduced winter heating demand. Although we project limited change in overall electricity demand, we do project changes in the timing of demand, both seasonally and diurnally. In particular, we find seasonal peaks shift from winter to summer in most regions, as well as a large increase in intraday ramping requirements—the difference between minimum and maximum demand within a day—suggesting electricity systems of the future will place an even greater value on storage and flexibility.
Q40|Costo de generación eléctrica incorporando externalidades ambientales: Mezcla óptima de tecnologías de carga base<BR>[Cost of electric generation accounting for environmental externalities: Optimal mix of baseload technologies]|This paper aims to calculate the Total Levelized Cost of Generation with Externalities (CTNGE, in Spanish) of three baseload technologies: coal thermoelectric, combined cycle and nuclear power plant. Monte Carlo simulation is used to estimate the CTNGE probability densities. The portfolio theory is used to find the mix of technologies that provides the least risky CTNGE and with the lowest average. We find that the nuclear power plant has the lowest CTNGE. The coal-fired thermoelectric plant is the technology with the largest and riskiest CTNGE. The analysis suggests that, when generating electricity, it is convenient to leave out the coal-fired thermoelectric plant and focus on two technologies: combined cycle and nuclear power plant, assigning a higher participation to the latter. One limitation of the work is that the probability densities of the CTNGE estimated through the Monte Carlo simulation depend on the data used. The present analysis suggests that the CTNGE can be significantly modified by including the cost of CO2.
Q40|Precio de las emisiones de CO2 en la generación eléctrica<BR>[Price of CO2 emissions in electricity generation]|This paper aims to identify the effects of including the price of CO2 emissions in the Total Levelized Cost of Generation (CTNG, in Spanish) of the combined cycle power plant. Monte Carlo simulation is used to estimate the probability densities of the CTNG and the Total Levelized Cost of Generation with Externalities (CTNGE). The effects of the price of CO2 emissions in the CTNG of the combined cycle plant are analysed through the concepts of stochastic dominance. We find that the price of CO2 emissions makes the CTNGE of the combined cycle plant to be higher and riskier than the CTNG. On the other hand, the CTNGE of the combined cycle plant is very sensitive to changes in the price of CO2 emissions. The analysis suggests that the share of electricity generation through combined cycle plants should be reduced to replace it with clean technologies. A limitation of the work is that the CTNG and CTNGE probability densities, generated through Monte Carlo simulation, depend on the data used, so they are sensitive to changes in the input parameters.
Q40|The impact of oil prices on CO2 emissions in China: A Wavelet coherence approach|This paper observes the possible co-movements of oil price and CO2 emissions in China by following wavelet coherence and wavelet partial coherence analyses to be able to depict short-run and long-run co-movements at both low and high frequencies. To this end, this research might provide the current literature with the output of potential short run and long run, structural, changes in CO2 emissions upon a shock (a change) in oil prices in China together with the control variables of World oil prices, fossil energy consumption, and renewables consumption, and, urban population in China. Therefore, this research aims at determining wavelet coherencies between the variables and phase differences to exhibit the leading variable in potential co-movements. By following the time domain and frequency domain analyses of this research, one may claim that the oil prices in China has considerable negative impact on CO2 emissions at high frequencies for the periods 1960-2014 and 1971-2014 in China. Besides, one may underline as well other important output of the research exploring that the urban population and CO2 emissions have positive associations, move together for the period 1960-2014 in China. Eventually, this paper might suggest that authorities follow demand side management policies considering energy demand behavior at both shorter cycles and longer cycles to diminish the CO2 emissions in China.
Q40|Energy Efficiency Transitions in China: How persistent are the movements to/from the frontier?|This study examines the energy efficiency transitions in China using provincial data covering the period 2003–2015. Sustainable progress in energy efficiency achievements is beneficial to energy insecurity and the achievement of the Paris Agreement. This article combines the stochastic frontier method with the panel Markov-switching regression to model energy efficiency transitions. Estimated energy efficiency scores showed significant regional and provincial heterogeneity. Also, while human capital development, urbanization, and foreign direct investment promote energy efficiency, price and income per capita reduce it. The transition probabilities indicate that the high energy-efficient state is less sustainable, and the movement towards the frontier seems less persistent than movement from the frontier. Thus, it appears that China is not making sustainable progress in energy efficiency. The unsustainable nature of the high energy-efficient state suggests that in China, there are weak energy efficiency efforts and energy efficiency policies lack robustness.
Q40|Green Energy Finance in Australia and New Zealand|We explore the history and current status of green energy finance in Australia and New Zealand. Although both countries have enviable renewable energy resources with a 100% renewable mix considered feasible, the two countries present highly contrasting contexts for energy finance. Currently, and largely for historical reasons, renewables make up over 80% of the electricity capacity in New Zealand, whereas in Australia this is 17%. Interestingly, between them and over time, the two countries have employed most of the important policy tools available to incentivize renewables and green energy finance (e.g., carbon taxes, carbon trading, a green investment bank, a green certification market, and feed-in-tariffs). Despite this, we show that between 2004 and 2017 both countries did not meet their potential in terms of renewables and have lower levels of green energy investment relative to gross domestic product per capita than many other developed countries. The Australian and New Zealand context provides many lessons for other jurisdictions—ranging from the need for cross-party and regulatory commitment to energy transition, to the need for policy stability. Indeed, a key issue in Australia and New Zealand is the challenge of designing electricity markets that support energy transition and the investment that it requires. Incumbents in both jurisdictions are fearful of a “death spiral” induced by distributed power, and in Australia political instability and market design issues contributed to a major energy crisis in 2017. However, the crisis, the Paris Agreement, and the associated impetus of new governments in both countries suggest green energy investment is set to increase in the coming years.
Q40|Cost-Effectiveness of Li-Ion Battery Storage with a Special Focus on Photovoltaic Systems in Private Households|Using a self-developed economic model with a technical battery aging component, this paper provides a new approach to evaluating the economic efficiency of Li-ion battery storage. We use our model to quantify the increase in self-consumption of electricity from a solar photovoltaic system by means of a home battery storage system. Regarding battery aging, we find that the longest battery lifetimes can be achieved with the highest state-of-charge limit, which is, however, not economically efficient due to limited self-consumption. Although one of the three battery pooling concepts was identified as not being economically efficient, namely the case of Sonnen, our evaluation shows that economic efficiency can, in principle, be achieved with home battery pooling concepts. In future research, the model-based impacts on self-consumption and batteryaging found here ought to be validated by using real world data from the systems analyzed.
Q40|Economic Impacts of the Marcellus Shale Energy and Environment Laboratory (MSEEL)|This report summarizes the economic impacts of the MSEEL project for both the state of West Virginia and the Morgantown metropolitan area. It uses two types of data; the first is project data provided by NNE and processed using a Cost Estimation Tool developed by the authors, and second is worker survey data collected during the drilling phase.
Q40|Estimating Elasticity of Transport Fuel Demand in Pakistan|This study investigates the fuel demand elasticities separately for petrol, diesel, and CNG using data from July 2004 to June 2015 for Pakistan. The results show that fuel demands are generally (own and cross price) inelastic in the short run, but are relatively elastic in the long run. Though these short run estimates are in line with the literature, the long run estimates differ considerably. Administrative intervention in fuel pricing, load management in CNG sector and its close to perfect substitutability with petrol is driving this long run price elasticity result. Moreover, income elasticity estimates suggest that petrol is a normal good while diesel and CNG are inferior goods. The estimates remain robust when lag demands of substitutes, the exchange rate, and real fuel prices are separately included in the model. [SBP Working Paper Series No. 96].
Q40|Factors influencing the spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency|Improving energy and environmental efficiency is an inevitable choice for developing countries to achieve sustainable economic and social development. Using VAR Granger causality test method (Granger, 1969), this study identifies the spatial correlation of energy environmental efficiency based on provincial panel data sample between 1995 and 2015 in China; further through the QAP analysis model (Liu, 2014), the factors influencing the spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency is empirically analyzed. The results show that the differences of economic development level, energy consumption structure, industrial structure, environmental regulation and technological innovation are significantly correlated with spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency; similar economic development level, technical level and industrial structure are beneficial to the formation of spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency while the differences of energy consumption structure and environmental regulation have little impact on this process.
Q40|A Bibliometric Analysis of the Energy and Fuel Research Field Based on Science Mapping|This article investigates the conceptual evolution of qualitative research in the field of energy and fuel focus on oil and gas research from 1990 to 2018 identifying the main topics and practical applications which it has been used. The automatic approach was based on a co-word analysis and combines performance analysis and science mapping. The considerable number of studies published according to the journals in energy and fuel field focus on oil and gas research indexed in ISI Web of Science makes it possible to undertake a conceptual analysis of how the field has evolved. To observe the conceptual evolution of energy and fuel, we define three consecutive periods: 1990-2000, 2001-2008, 2009-2018. The results show that energy and fuel focus on oil and gas research are distributed in ten main theoretical areas: VEGETABLE-OILS, BIO-OIL, OIL, DIESEL-FUEL, PERFORMANCE, BIO-DIESEL, BIOMASS, CRUDE-OIL, RENEWABLE-ENERGY, SHALE. The research output could be used by the scientific community to identify thematic areas and to know the evolution of the energy and fuel field.
Q40|Dynamics in the Extended Neoclassical Growth Model|Presentation deals with the expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. Firstly, the current problems presented by declining quality and limited quantity of the fossil fuels together with the properties of the new renewable energy sources are presented within the framework of EROEI (Energy Returned On Energy Invested). Next, the relationship between economic growth and energy consumption is introduced. Follows a brief description of the used modelling method, system dynamics and its advantages for an extension and analysis of economic models. The main content of this contribution is the description of the proposed expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. The impact of the varied quality of renewable energy sources (EROEI) on the future economic performance is being studied with the use of sensitivity analysis within the proposed model which covers the time period of 1965-2065.
Q40|And Then He Wasn't a She: Climate Change and Green Transitions in an Agent-Based Integrated Assessment Model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such market-based instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins.
Q40|And then he wasn't a she : Climate change and green transitions in an agent-based integrated assessment model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such marketbased instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins.
Q40|Exploring households' responsiveness to energy price changes using microdata|How households respond to energy prices is central to understanding the impact of a range of energy policies. Many empirical models and applied research rely upon outdated or generic energy price elasticities of demand, with little attention paid to whether these elasticities are the most appropriate. For example, it is typically assumed that the relevant price for the calculation of these elasticities of demand is the contemporaneous price but, except consumers on pre-payment or 'smart meters', consumers do not observe electricity prices contemporaneously. As this paper shows, what one assumes about the reference price, matters empirically. Furthermore, there are good reasons to think that households of different incomes might respond differently to changing energy prices. This matters given the prominence of price as an instrument of energy policy and the need to understand distributional impacts. This paper explores these issues using a QUAIDS model and data from the UK Living Cost and Food survey. We show that different reference prices produce different elasticity estimates, and that there are important differences in how households respond to energy prices across the income distribution. These results have important implications for understanding the impact of energy prices on households and the environment.
Q40|Seemingly Unrelated Interventions:Environmental Management Systems in the Workplace and Energy Conservation Behaviors at Home|To reduce their environmental impacts, a growing number of organizations worldwide have implemented environmental management systems (EMSs). In these organizations, energy conservation activities become usual behaviors for employees; thus, we hypothesize that employees continue such energy conservation behaviors at home. This hypothesis is supported by data from surveys of individuals in Japan. Specifically, we find that the probability of engaging in energy conservation practices at home is higher and that expenditures on electricity use are lower for individuals who work in organizations that implement EMSs than for individuals who do not work in organizations with EMSs. Our results suggest that beyond the original purpose of helping organizations reduce their environmental impacts, EMSs work as an intervention to promote household energy conservation.
Q40|Risk premia and seasonality in commodity futures|We develop and estimate a multifactor affine model of commodity futures that allows for stochastic seasonality. We document the existence of stochastic seasonal fluctuations in commodity futures and that properly accounting for the cost‐of‐carry curve requires at least three factors. We estimate the model using data on heating oil futures and analyze the contribution of the factors to risk premia. Correctly specifying seasonality as stochastic is important to avoid erroneously assigning those fluctuations to other risk factors. We also estimate a nonlinear version of the model that imposes the zero lower bound on interest rates and find similar results.
Q40|How to reduce energy poverty in Poland?|4.6 million people in Poland live in energy poverty. In order to significantly reduce the scale of this problem, more effective and better addressed public policy instruments are needed. We propose three new instruments. First, targeted fuel allowance, aimed at alleviating the symptoms of energy poverty. Second, advisory services and energy saving improvements. Third, thermal retrofit coupled with professional energy counselling. The latter two instruments are meant to eliminate the causes of energy poverty. Thermal retrofit is the most expensive but the most effective tool. Developing a mechanism for practical identification of energy poor households is a major challenge. It is to be tackled by local governments, especially social assistance centres.
Q40|Pomiar ubostwa energetycznego na podstawie danych BBGD - metodologia i zastosowanie|W niniejszym raporcie przedstawiamy sposob statystycznej identyfikacji gospodarstw domowych ubogich energetycznie wedlug wskaznika Wysokie Koszty – Niskie Dochody (WK-ND, ang. Low Income High Costs). Prezentujemy koncepcje pomiaru ubostwa energetycznego, a nastepnie krok po kroku opisujemy implementacje wskaznika WK-ND przy uzyciu danych z Badania Budzetow Gospodarstw Domowych dla lat 2012-2016. Szacujemy, ze w 2016 roku ubostwo energetyczne dotyczylo 4,6 miliona osob, czyli 12,2% populacji Polski. Stopa ubostwa energetycznego obnizyla sie w latach 2012-2016 o 2,2 pkt. proc., glownie ze wzgledu na rosnace dochody ludnosci. Polowa osob ubogich energetycznie byla rownoczesnie uboga dochodowo w ujeciu relatywnym. Wiekszosc ubogich energetycznie mieszkala na wsiach i w malych miastach, zwykle w domach jednorodzinnych, i korzystala z kotla lub pieca na paliwa stale jako podstawowego zrodla ciepla.
Q40|Transformacja weglowa w subregionie koninskim|W niniejszym raporcie omawiamy zmiany spoleczno-gospodarcze jakie beda nastepowac w subregionie koninskim opierajacym sie przede wszystkim na przemysle wydobywczym i energetycznym. Przedstawiamy rowniez sytuacje Grupy Kapitalowej ZE PAK S.A., skupiajacej gros dzialalnosci przemyslowej w subregionie i bedacej jednoczesnie jego motorem napedowym. Analizujemy scenariusze zakonczenia dzialalnosci gorniczej oraz ich wplyw na dochody gmin oraz zatrudnienie mieszkancow. Opierajac sie na zyskujacym znaczenie pojeciu sprawiedliwej transformacji, wskazujemy przyklady jego operacjonalizacji mogace sluzyc w planowaniu transformacji w subregionie koninskim.
Q40|How Effective is Energy-Efficient Housing? Evidence from a Field Experiment in Mexico|Despite growing enthusiasm, there is little empirical evidence on how well energy efficiency investments work. Evidence is particularly lacking from low- and middle-income countries, despite a widespread view that these countries have many of the best opportunities. This paper evaluates a field experiment in Mexico in which a quasi-experimental sample of new homes was provided with insulation and other energy-efficient upgrades. A novel feature of our study is that we deploy large numbers of data loggers which allow us to measure temperature and humidity at high frequency inside homes. We find that the upgrades had no detectable impact on electricity use or thermal comfort, with essentially identical temperature and humidity levels in upgraded and non-upgraded homes. These results stand in sharp contrast to the engineering estimates that predicted up to a 26% decrease in electricity use. Part of the explanation is that air conditioner ownership is lower than expected, thus reducing the potential for reductions in energy use. In addition, we document that most households have their windows open on hot days, nullifying the thermal benefits of roof and wall insulation. Overall, we conclude that the benefits from these investments are unlikely to exceed the costs, which added $400-$500 USD to the cost of each home. Our results underscore the urgent need to fully incorporate socioeconomic conditions and human behavior into engineering models of energy use.
Q40|From average Joe to frugal Jane and wasteful John: A quantile regression analysis of Swiss households' electricity use|"In this article, we investigate the heterogeneity in household electricity demand in Switzerland. We use a quantile regression approach in order to assess the impacts of electricity prices, income and other socio-demographic characteristics across consumer groups with increasing energy intensities. Estimations show important differences between the ""average Joe"", the ""frugal Jane"" and the ""wasteful John"" for the majority of these variables. Most importantly, households in the lowest deciles of electricity use do not react to changes in electricity prices, while those situated at upper-end of the electricity spectrum exhibit significantly negative short-run price elasticities varying between -0.16, -0.19, -0.21 and -0.27 at the at the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th deciles, respectively. We also find that low users of electricity react positively and significantly to changes in their wealth compared to intensive electricity consumers. The main policy implications of this work concern the design of price-based measures for reducing electricity consumption in the residential sector and the possibility of accounting for individual responses in tailoring policies, governance mechanisms and business models."
Q40|Outliers and misleading leverage effect in asymmetric GARCH-type models|This paper illustrates how outliers can affect both the estimation and testing of leverage effect by focusing on the TGARCH model. Three estimation methods are compared through Monte Carlo experiments: Gaussian Quasi-Maximum Likelihood, Quasi-Maximum Likelihood based on the t Student likelihood and Least Absolute Deviation method. The empirical behavior of the t-ratio and the Likelihood Ratio tests for the significance of the leverage parameter is also analyzed. Our results put forward the unreliability of Gaussian Quasi-Maximum Likelihood methods in the presence of outliers. In particular, we show that one isolated outlier could hide true leverage effect whereas two consecutive outliers bias the estimated leverage coefficient in a direction that crucially depends on the sign of the first outlier and could lead to wrongly reject the null of no leverage effect or to estimate asymmetries of the wrong sign. By contrast, we highlight the good performance of the robust estimators in the presence of an isolated outlier. However, when there are patches of outliers, our findings suggest that the sizes and powers of the tests as well as the estimated parameters based on robust methods may still be distorted in some cases. We illustrate these results with two series of daily returns, namely the Spain IGBM Consumer Goods index and the futures contracts of the Natural gas.
Q40|Options of optimal dam capacity under externality and uncertainty|This paper analyses the relation between optimal dam capacity and water management in a unified approach. Having extended a hydropower generation model, we investigate the optimal dam capacity for multi-functional dams such as providing infrastructure for industrial and households water use, conjunctive use of hydropower generation and irrigation; storing water in the wet season for use in the dry season, and mitigating flooding damages. Our optimal solution shows that optimal dam capacity is characterized by the marginal benefits of hydropower generation, the marginal costs of flooding damages, and the constraining factors. We also provide the implication of the optimal solution for three real world cases of dam construction, i.e. for flood control, for irrigation and for hydropower generation.
Q40|Energy efficiency, green technology and the pain of paying|It is well-known from the mental accounting literature that consumers would rather pay up-front for a luxury good like a vacation, but pay later for a durable good like a dishwasher. This occurs because the hedonic benefits and monetary costs enter differently in the mental accounts. But how does the mental accounting process change if the durable good saves money over time, as with an energy efficiency upgrade, or signals wealth and ``green status'', like a rooftop solar panel or an electric car? In this paper, we derive a mental accounting model of energy efficient and green durable investment that incorporates the consumer heterogeneity in the psychological ``pain of paying''. The model predicts that pain of paying attenuates the willingness to pay for status signaling and environmental protection, but increases the willingness to pay more up front in order to reduce long run energy bills. Consumers with a high pain of paying may therefore act as if they have a low discount rate when they are more accurately described as being conflicted about their intertemporal preferences. We test these predictions using a survey-based discrete choice experiment with solar and energy efficient homes, in which we measured individual subjects' susceptibility to pain of paying.
Q40|Photovoltaics and heat pumps - Limitations of local pricing mechanisms|Demand side management has been proposed as one cornerstone for a future sustainable energy system. Local pricing may contribute to enable a smart behaviour of grid users by providing appropriate incentives. In this paper, we apply a local pricing algorithm on distribution grid level. We analyse its effects for a typical German rural low voltage grid with high penetration of photovoltaics and heat pumps. With households using electric heat pumps, a potentially flexible consumer type is implemented in detail. Such setup is used to assess two issues: Firstly, the exploited potential in terms of avoided curtailment and, secondly, redistributive effects of such local pricing mechanism under use of different stylized policy choices. Results show that – even with given local incentives – the consumption adjustment towards an efficient grid usage can frequently not be realized since complementarity of photovoltaics and space heating demand is limited and technical constraints do not allow to overcome this gap. Furthermore, we show that – despite limited merits in terms of system costs – the redistributive effects of local pricing mechanisms are very significant.
Q40|Adoption of solar and wind energy: The roles of carbon pricing and aggregate policy support|This paper analyzes the roles of policies and preferences in national adoption of solar and wind energy technologies. We use cross-sectional and panel regressions for both the European Union and a broader international sample. We find that countries that price carbon emissions have gone on to adopt more solar and wind energy. The aggregate level of policy support, measured in euros per megawatt hour, appears to have been important for solar energy adoption. We also find that solar energy adoption has been larger in countries with higher proportions of people concerned about climate change. In addition, we assess the effects of other key explanators including financial system size and income levels.
Q40|Flying more efficiently: joint impacts of fuel prices, capital costs and fleet size on airline fleet fuel economy|We investigate the factors that affect airlines’ choice of fleet fuel economy using plane- level data for 1267 airlines in 174 countries. Larger and newer planes are usually more fuel- efficient. Controlling for the effect of aircraft size and age, we find that the technically achievable fleet fuel economy improves with the size of airlines and the price of fuel and worsens with higher capital costs. The elasticity of fuel economy with respect to the price of fuel is between -0.07 and -0.13. We find evidence for regional differences in fleet fuel economy that are attributable to the adoption of distinct groups of technologies.
Q40|Exploring the spatial and temporal determinants of gas central heating adoption|In order to better understand the potential for both policy and technological improvements to aid carbon abatement, long-term historical information on the time-path of transition from more traditional to cleaner fuels is useful. This is a relatively understudied element of the fuel switching literature in both developed and emerging economies. This research adds to this literature by examing the adoption time-path of network gas as a heating fuel. We merge a unique dataset on gas network roll-out over time, with other geo-coded data and employ an instrumental variables technique in order to simultaneously model supply and demand. Results indicate a non-linear relationship between the proportion of households using gas as their primary means of central heating and the length of time the network has been in place in each area. Proximity to the gas network, peat bogs, and areas which have banned the consumption of bituminous coal also affect gas connections. Variations in socioeconomic and dwelling characteristics at area level can also help explain connections to the gas network. A better understanding of this variation is crucial in designing targeted policies and can aid network expansion decisions
Q40|Systems Innovation, Inertia and Pliability: A mathematical exploration with implications for climate change abatement|This paper develops a stylised mathematical interpretation of innovation and inertia in economic systems, characteristics which feature in economics literature traceable back at least to Schumpeter and other economic theorists of innovation, as well as economic historians. Such characteristics are particularly important in energy systems and their potential response to climate change, where it is important to distinguish operational/fuel substitution from investment because the latter necessarily embodies both inertia and innovation, in systems as well as technologies. We argue that integrated assessments of climate abatement need to focus on investment, including the associated characteristics of both learning and inertia, and derive in detail the mathematical basis for incorporating these factors through marginal investment cost curves. From this we also introduce the concept of ‘pliability’ as an expression of the ratio between costs which are significant but transitional (including learning investments, infrastructure and overcoming inertia), as compared to the enduring costs implied by purely exogenous technology assumptions. We then incorporate these features in a global model of optimal climate mitigation and show that they can generate a very different profile and pattern of results from traditional ‘integrated assessment’ models, pinpointing the key sensitivities. We conclude that alongside all the attention devoted to evaluating climate change impacts and technology scenarios, far more effort should be devoted to understanding the structural characteristics of how the global energy system may respond to climate change mitigation.
Q40|Missing money, missing policy and Resource Adequacy in Australia’s National Electricity Market|From 2012-2017 more than 5000MW of coal plant exited Australia’s National Electricity Market (NEM). The average plant exit notice period was 5.2 months. Exit at scale peaked just as imbalances in the market for natural gas emerged. Compounding matters were Variable Renewable Energy (VRE) plant entry lags due to policy discontinuity in prior periods. By 2016/17, the culmination of coal plant exit, gas market imbalances and VRE entry lags produced more than 20 Lack of Reserve events across the NEM, three blackouts including a black system event in the South Australian region. Spot and forward electricity prices rose to record levels, viz. $90-$130/MWh compared to an historic average of $42.50. In this article, the lead-up to these abnormal trading conditions are traced back to policy decisions a decade earlier in the markets for electricity, natural gas and renewable energy. Lessons for other energy markets undergoing transformation include i). transparency over lumpy plant exit decisions, ii). climate change policy stability, and iii). clear policy limits to gas export capacity vis-à-vis domestic supply.
Q40|Reactive Power Procurement: Lessons from Three Leading Countries|This paper explores the international experience in the procurement of reactive power and related electricity ancillary services. It involves system operators from different jurisdictions including Australia, the United States and Great Britain. The paper evaluates the different procurement mechanisms and related compensation schemes. In addition, it also appraises a novel approach (from the Power Potential initiative in the UK) for contracting reactive power services from distributed energy resources (DERs) using a market-based mechanism. The conceptual auction design applicable to the procurement of reactive power is also discussed. Our findings suggest that competition in reactive power is very limited in comparison with other ancillary services such as frequency regulation and capacity reserves. The introduction of more market oriented mechanisms for acquiring reactive and active power services by the system operator opens new opportunities and new ways to deal with voltage stability issues. Power Potential trails a technical and commercial solution, new market roles and the new interactions required in the introduction of a competitive reactive power market.
Q40|On entry cost dynamics in Australia’s National Electricity Market|In theory, well designed electricity markets should deliver an efficient mix of technologies at least-cost. But energy market theories and energy market modelling are based upon equilibrium analysis and in practice electricity markets can be off-equilibrium for extended periods. Near-term spot and forward contract prices can and do fall well below, or substantially exceed, relevant entry cost benchmarks and associated long run equilibrium prices. However, given sufficient time higher prices, on average or during certain periods, create incentives for new entrant plant which in turn has the effect of capping longer-dated average spot price expectations at the estimated cost of the relevant new entrant technologies. In this article, we trace generalised new entrant benchmarks and their relationship to spot price outcomes in Australia’s National Electricity Market over the 20-year period to 2018; from coal, to gas and more recently to variable renewables plus firming, notionally provided by – or shadow priced at – the carrying cost of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine. This latest entry benchmark relies implicitly, but critically, on the gains from exchange in organised spot markets, using existing spare capacity. As aging coal plant exit, gains from exchange may gradually diminish with ‘notional firming’ increasingly and necessarily being met by physical firming. At this point, the benchmark must once again move to a new technology set.
Q40|Bank Liquidity, Credit Supply, and the Environment|We evaluate the impact of the credit conditions facing corporations on their emissions of toxic air pollutants. Exploiting cross-county, cross-time shale discoveries that generated liquidity windfalls at local bank branches, we construct measures of (1) the degree to which banks in non-shale counties, i.e., counties where shale was not discovered, receive liquidity shocks through their branches in shale counties and (2) the degree to which a corporation in a non-shale county has a relationship lender that receives liquidity shocks through its branches. From both the county- and firm-level analyses, we discover that positive shocks to credit conditions reduce corporate pollution.
Q40|Estimating Elasticity of Transport Fuel Demand in Pakistan|This study investigates the fuel demand elasticities separately for petrol, diesel, and CNG using data from July 2004 to June 2015 for Pakistan. The results show that fuel demands are generally (own and cross price) inelastic in the short run, but are relatively elastic in the long run. Though these short run estimates are in line with the literature, the long run estimates differ considerably. Administrative intervention in fuel pricing, load management in CNG sector and its close to perfect substitutability with petrol is driving this long run price elasticity result. Moreover, income elasticity estimates suggest that petrol is a normal good while diesel and CNG are inferior goods. The estimates remain robust when lag demands of substitutes, the exchange rate, and real fuel prices are separately included in the model.
Q40|Empower the consumer! Energy-related financial literacy and its socioeconomic determinants|To be aware of the potential for energy savings in their homes, individuals need specific energy-related and financial knowledge. In addition, they also need the cognitive skills to apply this knowledge, for example when it comes to the calculation of the lifetime cost of household appliances or energy-efficient renovations. This set of knowledge and skills is related to two literacy concepts, i.e. energy and financial literacy. In this paper, we propose a new concept of literacy that we call “energy-related financial literacy”. Further, we present information on the level of financial literacy as well as on the level of energy-related financial literacy for a sample of European households. In the empirical part of the paper we estimate several ordered probit models in order to analyse the determinants of the level of energy-related financial literacy, with a particular interest to understanding the role of gender. Our results show that the level of energy-related financial literacy is relatively low and heterogeneous across the European countries. Moreover, the results confirm previous findings about the gender gap in financial literacy, with males being associated with higher levels of the index. We also identify such a gender gap for energy-related financial literacy.
Q40|On the power of indicators: how the choice of the fuel poverty measure affects the identification of the target population|We propose a critical analysis of fuel poverty indicators and demonstrate that choosing a given fuel poverty indicator and, in particular, its threshold level, is central to the identification of the fuel-poor population. First, we conducted an inter-indicator analysis to show how profiles of fuel-poor households vary depending on the indicator selected. More specifically, after identifying groups of affected house- holds using a set of objective and subjective measures, we designed a multidimensional approach based on a combination of complementary methods, namely, a multiple correspondence analysis and a hierarchical and partitioning clustering analysis to analyse their characteristics. Through this framework, we highlight the difficulty of identifying a “typical profile” for fuel-poor households because of the significant variability in their characteristics and we show that the composition of the population depends on the choice of the indicator. Second, we applied an intra-indicator analysis using two objective expenditure-based indicators with thresholds. In particular, we conducted a sensitivity analysis based on a logit model including variables describing household and dwelling characteristics. We show that the profiles of fuel-poor households as well as the drivers of fuel poverty vary considerably with the chosen threshold level. Given these findings, we stress the need to review how we currently rely on conventional fuel poverty indicators to identify affected groups and give some recommendations.
Q40|Evolution of EROIs of Electricity Until 2050: Estimation Using the Input-Output Model THEMIS|The EROI –for Energy Returned On Invested– of an energy technology measures its ability to provide energy efficiently. Previous studies draw a link between the affluence of a society and the EROI of its energy system, and show that EROIs of renewables are lower than those of fossil fuels. Logically, concerns have been expressed that system-wide EROI may decrease during a renewable energy transition. First, I explain theoretically that the EROIs of renewables themselves could then decrease as energy-efficient fossil fuels would be replaced by less energy-efficient renewables in the supply-chain. Then, using the multiregional input-output model THEMIS, I estimate the evolution of EROIs and prices of electric technologies from 2010 to 2050 for different scenarios. Global EROI of electricity is predicted to go from 12 in 2010 to 11 in 2050 in a business-as-usual scenario, but down to 6 in a 100% renewable one. Finally, I study the economic implication of a declining EROI. An inverse relation between EROI and price is suggested empirically, even though theory shows that both quantities may move in the same direction.
Q40|Are the Crude Oil Markets Really Becoming More Efficient over Time? Some New Evidence|"We replicate the study of Tabak & Cajueiro (2007): ""Are the crude oil markets becoming weakly efficient over time? A test for time-varying long-range dependence in prices and volatility"" published in Energy Economics 29, pp. 28-36. The results have been mostly confirmed. Specifically, we have confirmed that the crude oil markets efficiency could be rejected up till approximately 1994 and this holds for both studied crude oil commodities – Brent and WTI. Analyzing an extended dataset up till June 2017, we find that the markets remained efficient (at least with respect to long-range dependence) until the outbreak of the Global Financial Crisis in 2008. This is confirmed by all three applied methods – the rescaled range analysis used in the original study, and the detrended fluctuation analysis and the Geweke-Porter-Hudak estimator which were added for stronger validity of the results. The markets returned back to efficiency around 2012 and remained there until 2015 when the Hurst exponent started another rally and stayed rather high until the end of the examined sample. Comparing the two markets, the Brent crude oil shows stronger signs of inefficiency during the inefficient periods compared to the WTI crude oil. This is in hand with the results reported in the original study. Apart from rerunning the analysis on an extended dataset and using two additional methods, we also provide a firmer validity check using the moving-block bootstrap procedure, which outperforms the original shuffling procedure in the provided forecasting study."
Q40|And then He wasn't a She : Climate change and green transitions in an agent-based model integrated assessment model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such marketbased instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins. Classification-JEL : C63, Q40, Q50, Q54 Keywords : Climate change, agent-based models, transitions, energy policy, growth
Q40|Interpreting the Oil Risk Premium: do Oil Price Shocks Matter?| This paper provides an analysis of the link between the global market for crude oil and oil futures risk premium at the aggregate level. It offers empirical evidence on whether the compensation for risk required by the speculators depends on the type of the structural shock of interest. Understanding the response of the risk premium to unexpected changes in the price of oil can be useful to address some research questions, among which: what is the relationship between crude oil risk premium and unexpected rise in the price of oil? On average, what should speculators expect to receive as a compensation for the risk they are taking on? This work is based on a Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model of the crude oil market. Two main results emerge. First, the impulse response analysis provides evidence of a negative relationship between the risk premium and the changes in the price of oil triggered by shocks to economic fundamentals. Second, this analysis shows that the historical decline of the risk premium can be modelled as a part of endogenous effect of the oil market driven shocks.
Q40|Modelling the Global Price of Oil: Is there any Role for the Oil Futures-spot Spread?|In this work, we propose an analysis of the global market for crude oil based on a revised version of the Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model introduced by Kilian and Murphy (2014). On this respect, we replace the global proxy for above-ground crude oil inventories with the oil futures-spot spread. The latter is defined as the percent deviation of the oil futures price from the spot price of oil and it represents a measure of the convenience yield but expressed with an opposite sign. The following model provides an economic interpretation of the residual structural shock, namely the financial market shock. This new shock is designed to capture an unanticipated change in the benefit of holding crude oil inventories that is driven by financial incentives. We find evidence that financial market shocks have played an important role in explaining the rises in the price of oil during the period 2003-2008.
Q40|Interpreting the Oil Risk Premium: do Oil Price Shocks Matter?|This paper provides an analysis of the link between the global market for crude oil and oil futures risk premium at the aggregate level. It offers empirical evidence on whether the compensation for risk required by the speculators depends on the type of the structural shock of interest. Understanding the response of the risk premium to unexpected changes in the price of oil can be useful to address some research questions, among which: what is the relationship between crude oil risk premium and unexpected rise in the price of oil? On average, what should speculators expect to receive as a compensation for the risk they are taking on? This work is based on a Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR) model of the crude oil market. Two main results emerge. First, the impulse response analysis provides evidence of a negative relationship between the risk premium and the changes in the price of oil triggered by shocks to economic fundamentals. Second, this analysis shows that the historical decline of the risk premium can be modelled as a part of endogenous effect of the oil market driven shocks.
Q40|Energy efficiency programs in the context of increasing block tariffs: The case of residential electricity in Mexico|Increasing block pricing schemes represent difficulties for applied researchers who try to recover demand parameters, in particular, price and income elasticities. The Mexican residential electricity tariff structure is amongst the most intricate around the globe. In this paper, we estimate the residential electricity demand and use the corresponding structural parameter estimates to simulate an energy efficiency improvement scenario, as suggested by the Energy Transition Law of December 2015. The simulated program consists of a massive replacement of electric appliances (air conditioners, fans, refrigerators, washing machines, and lights) for more energy-efficient units. The main empirical findings are the following: in the main counterfactual scenario, the overall residential electricity consumption decreases 9.9% and the associated expenditure falls 11.3%. Additionally, the electricity subsidy decreases 7.5 billion of Mexican Pesos per year (i.e., 403 million of USD at the average exchange rate registered in 2017) and there is an annual cut in CO2 emissions of 3.9 million of tons.
Q40|Labour values and energy values|In the history of economic thought various thinkers have been attracted by the problematic idea of a single cause of economic value. Today such ideas appear mostly in studies on the labour theory of value of Karl Marx. In 1867 his “Das Kapital” tried to explain the values of all commodities by a special common substance, the quantity of abstract labour embodied in them, i.e., the direct and indirect labour time necessary to produce them. Several well-known mainstream economists (for example, Wicksteed, Böhm-Bawerk, Wicksell and Pareto) quickly pointed out that labour was not the only common substance in commodities. Another problem was Marx’s deficient mathematics. In Marx’s system the same commodities can appear on the side of the inputs and on the side of the outputs. Today it is well-known that many analytical problems in such circular systems can be solved by means of simultaneous equations of the input-output type. Here the most original contributions were not made by leading economists mentioned above, but by rather unknown outsiders (Mühlpfordt, Dmitriev, Charasoff, Potron), whose pioneering works were neglected for decades. In December 1927, both Sraffa and Leontief, independently of each other, argued that the reduction of all commodities to labour values was not a unique process; from a formal point of view, it was possible to compute not only labour values, but also wheat values, coal values, etc. For various reasons, their insights of 1927 remained rather unnoticed for several decades. A few decades ago the high impact journal Science published some papers advocating the use of energy values, corresponding to the direct and indirect quantity of energy necessary to produce a commodity. The most conspicuous text of this type is the often cited paper “Embodied Energy and Economic Valuation” by Robert Costanza (published in Science in 1980), claiming that both theory and empiry suggest a close connection between prices and energy values. The energy theory of value is usually discussed outside the networks of orthodox or marxian economics, but the empirical and theoretical studies on energy values and labour values show several remarkable cases of analogous arguments and imperfections, both trying to support the use of a single substance of economic value. My paper considers both theoretical and empirical aspects of such discussions on labour values and energy values. I also use a simple numerical example, to illustrate the computation of both labour values and energy values via two methods: via a system of simultaneous input-output equations and via subsystems (vertically integrated systems that produce only one net output). The two computation methods are well-known from the rich literature on labour values, but comparing energy values and labour values forces me to a generalisation of the notion of a subsystem: in order to define this notion unambiguously, I need to specify not only the net output of the subsystem, but also its net input. If the only net input of the subsystem is energy, I use the expression “energy subsystem”. This concept is needed to establish a percentage formula for the deviation of prices from energy values, analogous to my formula for the deviation of prices from labour values. By generalising Sraffa’s notion of subsystems it is possible to explain why supporters of labour values and energy values both present misleadingly “good” empirical results for their favourite theory. Both groups should be more aware of the non-uniqueness of their exaggerated claims for their one sided theories of value.
Q40|Oil price shocks and uncertainty: How stable is their relationship over time?|This paper investigates the time-varying relationship between economic/financial uncertainty and oil price shocks in the US. A structural VAR (SVAR) model and a time-varying parameter VAR (TVP-VAR) model are estimated, using six indicators that reflect economic and financial uncertainty. The findings of the study reveal that static frameworks (SVAR) do not show the full dynamics of the oil price shocks effects to the US economic/financial uncertainty. This is owing to the evidence provided by the time-varying framework (TVP-VAR), which convincingly shows that uncertainty responses to the three oil price shocks are heterogeneous both over time and over the different oil price shocks. In particular, uncertainty responses seem to experience a shift in the post global financial crisis period. Thus, the conventional findings that economic fundamentals response marginally, positively or negatively to supply-side, aggregate demand and oil specific demand shocks, respectively, do not necessarily hold at all periods. Rather, they are impacted by the prevailing economic conditions at each time period. The findings are important to policy makers and investors, as they provide new insights on the said relationships.
Q40|The WTI/Brent oil futures price differential and the globalisation-regionalisation hypothesis|This study examines the globalisation-regionalisation hypothesis in the WTI/Brent crude oil futures price differential by considering a set of the potential determinants at 1, 3 and 6 months to maturity contracts. To this end, we employ monthly data over the period 1993:1-2016:12 for a set of crude oil-market specific (convenience yield, consumption, production) and oil-futures market specific (open interest, trading volume) determinants. Our results can be outlined as follows. First, the WTI/Brent convenience yield spread can drive a wedge between the WTI and Brent oil futures prices for the nearby month and 3-month contracts. Second, the WTI/Brent oil production spread is a significant determinant for the 1-month, the 3-month and the 6-month to maturity contracts, while the WTI/Brent oil consumption spread is significant for the 6-month contract. Third, the WTI/Brent open interest spread appears to influence the oil futures price variability between the WTI and Brent for the 3-month and the 6-month contracts, while the WTI/Brent trading volume spread lends predictive power for the 1-month and the 3-month contracts. Fourth, the oil futures market does not appear to be globalised in every time period. We provide evidence of a regionalised oil futures market in the short-run horizon. Fifth, our robustness analysis lends support to the above findings. The findings of this study provide valuable information to energy investors, traders and hedgers.
Q40|Oil Prices and Stock Markets: A Review of the Theory and Empirical Evidence|Do oil prices and stock markets move in tandem or in opposite directions? The complex and time varying relationship between oil prices and stock markets has caught the attention of the financial press, investors, policymakers, researchers, and the general public in recent years. In light of such attention, this paper reviews research on the oil price and stock market relationship. The majority of papers we survey study the impacts of oil markets on stock markets, whereas, little research in the reverse direction exists. Our review finds that the causal effects between oil and stock markets depend heavily on whether research is performed using aggregate stock market indices, sectorial indices, or firm-level data and whether stock markets operate in net oil-importing or net oil-exporting countries. Additionally, conclusions vary depending on whether studies use symmetric or asymmetric changes in the price of oil, or whether they focus on unexpected changes in oil prices. Finally, we find that most studies show oil price volatility transmits to stock market volatility, and that including measures of stock market performance improves forecasts of oil prices and oil price volatility. Several important avenues for further research are identified
Q40|Residential fuel choice in the rural: A field research on two counties of North China|Solid fuels are still widely used in rural China though the living standard has improved greatly. Energy poverty is an obvious indicator of poverty, which has serious effect on economic development, environment and health. In this paper, we conducted a detailed analysis on fuel choice and usage behavior of different end-use activities in rural residential energy consumption. Using 717 household observations from a micro survey data in two counties of Shandong and Hebei province in 2016, we find that biomass is the dominant fuel used for cooking among all energy sources despite of obvious trend of decrease in recent years, accounting for 44%. Clean energy used to cook increased markedly with a proportion of nearly 50%. Biomass is also the ordinary fuel used for water heating excerpt for solar energy. Almost 90% households rely on coal for space heating in winter, and one-third households have space heating less than 2 months. Ownerships of home appliances for basic needs is higher than that for hedonistic needs, and usage behaviors of some appliances are economical. Fuel accessibility of commercial energy has improved noticeably in rural, and the high proportion usage of biomass is affected by family income, using habits, local resources, environmental recognition, education and age. Since solid fuels are widely used in rural, it is important to cleanse biomass, develop new energy, and improve residents¡¯ cognition about the consequences of using solid fuels.
Q40|Cooking fuel choice in rural China: results from microdata|Unclean cooking fuel is widely used in the developing world, and it is the main indication of energy poverty in rural China. In this paper, we investigate the situation, transition, and determination of fuel choice in China's rural household cooking. Using the large scale micro-survey data of China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS), we find that there is a big gap in using commercial cooking fuels between rural and urban households: 60% of the rural households adopt traditional biomass resource as their main fuel for cooking in 2011, while this figure is less than 5% in the urban. We also identify a significant spatial divide in fuel choice: in southeastern coastal areas, about 40% of the rural households prefer solid fuels, while this figure jumps to over 80% in northeastern areas. The longitudinal data also reveal a significant transition from traditional to modern fuels from 2008 to 2012. Moreover, the distance to the most commonly used farmer's market, education background, coal price and female labor participation are all influential in determining the households' choices.
Q40|Solid fuel use for cooking and its health effects on the elderly in rural China|Indoor air pollution is mainly caused by solid fuel use for cooking in developing countries. Many previous studies focused on its health risks on the children and in specific local area. This paper investigates household energy usage and transition for cooking in rural China and the health effects on the elderly. A national large-scale dataset CHARLS (China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study) covering 450 villages and communities is employed. Logit regressions were used to quantitatively estimate the effects, after controlling for some factors such as income, demographic and geographical variables. The results robustly show that compared to non-solid fuels, solid fuel use significantly increases the possibility of chronic lung diseases (30%), exacerbation of chronic lung diseases (95%), seizure of heart disease (1.80 times), and decreases self-evaluated health status of the elderly (1.38 times). Thus, it is urgent to improve clean energy access for cooking in rural China.
Q40|Key Sectors in Carbon Footprint Responsibility at the City Level: A Case Study of Beijing|"Purpose ¨C This paper aims to identify key sectors in carbon footprint responsibility, an introduced concept depicting CO2 responsibilities allocated through the supply chain containing sectoral activities and interactions. In detail, various key sectors could be identified according to comparative advantages in trade, sectoral linkage, and sectoral synergy within the supply chain. Design/methodology/approach ¨C A semi-closed IO model is employed to make household income-expenditure relationship endogenous through the supply chain where sectoral CO2 emissions are calculated and the production-based responsibility (PR) principle is evaluated. Thus, according to ""carbon footprint responsibility"", modified HEM is applied to decompose sectoral CO2 in terms of comparative advantages in trade, sectoral linkage and synergy. Finally, key sectors are identified via sectoral shares and associated decompositions in carbon footprint responsibility. Findings - Compared to 2005, in 2012: (1) the PR principle failed to track sectoral CO2 flow, and embodied CO2 in import and interprovincial export increased, with manufacturing contributing the most; (2) manufacturing should take more carbon responsibilities in the internal linkage, and tertiary sectors in the net forward and backward linkage, with sectors enjoying low carbonization in the mixed linkage; (3) inward net CO2 flows of manufacturing and service sectors were more complicated than their outward ones in terms of involved sectors and economic drivers; and (4) residential effects on CO2 emissions of traditional sectors increased, urban effects remained larger than rural ones, and manufacturing and tertiary sectors received the largest residential effects. Originality/value ¨C The value of paper involves: (1) household income-expenditure relationship got endogenous in intermediate supply and demand, corresponding to the rapid urbanization in megacities; (2) key sectors were observed to change flexibly according to real sectoral activities and interaction; and (3) the evaluation of the PR principle was completed ahead of employing a certain CO2 accounting principle at the city level."
Q40|CO2 Emissions in Beijing: Sectoral Linkages and Demand Drivers|Cities contribute to most of the CO2 emissions. And the economic system at city level is much complex due to various linkaged sectors. This paper aims to analyze the economy-wide contribution of sectors and households to CO2 emissions in Beijing (China) by utilizing a semi-closed input-output model integrated with a modified hypothetical extraction method. Results show that, compared with 2005, in 2012 (1) within the entire economic system, interprovincial export caused the largest amount of CO2 emissions [135.50 million tons (Mt)] with the main contributions arising from manufacturing (42.12 Mt); transportation, storage, and post (TSP in short, 29.13 Mt); and urban households (23.57 Mt); (2) across the intermediate input-output system, real estate activities accounted for the largest amount of embodied CO2 intensity (0.07 kg per yuan) and more sectors outsourced CO2; (3) tracing the integrated sector network, CO2 linkages pointed to manufacturing and TSP dominating the internal linkages, manufacturing prominent in mixed linkages, secondary industry leading the net forward linkages, and tertiary industry dominant in terms of net backward linkages, helping control CO2 according to its origin; (4) CO2 emissions induced by household strikingly affected total CO2 emissions in Beijing, mainly coming from income-oriented affects, with a large rural-urban disparity and a similar sectoral distribution pattern. Finally, we propose suggestions on carbon reduction in terms of technological interlinkages, final demand and household participation.
Q40|Will Pollution Taxes Improve Joint Ecological and Economic Efficiency of Thermal Power Industry in China?: A DEA‐Based Materials Balance Approach|Previous studies of the efficiency of Chinese electricity industry have been limited in providing insights regarding policy implications of inherent trade‐offs of economic and environmental outcomes. This study proposes a modified data envelopment analysis method combined with materials balance principle to estimate ecological and cost efficiency in the Chinese electricity industry. The economic cost and ecological impact of energy input reallocation strategies for improving efficiency are identified. The possible impacts of pollution taxes upon the levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions are assessed. Estimation results show that (1) both energy input costs and SO2 could be reduced through increasing technical efficiency. (2) It is possible to adjust energy input mix to attain ecological efficiency, and, correspondingly, SO2 would be reduced by 15%. (3) The Chinese electricity industry would reduce its unit cost by 9% if optimal ecological efficiency is attained and reduce its unit pollution by 13% if optimal cost efficiency is attained, implying that there are positive ecological synergy effects associated with energy cost savings and positive economic synergy effects associated with SO2 pollution reductions. (4) Estimated shadow costs of SO2 reduction are very high, suggesting that, in the short term, the Chinese electricity industry should pursue cost efficiency instead of ecological efficiency, since alternative abatement activities are less costly and some of the abatement cost could be further offset by energy input cost savings. (5) There would be no significant difference between the impacts of pollution discharge fees and pollution taxes on SO2 emissions levels because of the relatively low pollution tax rate.
Q40|Impacts of shifting China¡¯s final energy consumption to electricity on CO2 emission reduction|Electrification is advocated by both academics and the Chinese government to control air pollution and promote productivity. However, the problem remains to be solved of how to achieve the trade-off between reducing CO2 emissions and maintaining economic growth when switching from various fuels to electricity under the policy support. In view of this, after analyzing the effects of exogenous shocks in various fuel demands based on impulse response functions of several vector autoregression models, this paper measures the current and long-term impacts of electrification on GDP and CO2 emissions. Finally, some typical cases of replacement of fossil-fueled appliances by electrical counterparts encouraged by the government are assessed. The main findings are: (1) Almost all of the exogenous shocks in fuel demands have positive effects on both GDP and CO2 emissions, while the gas shock has a slightly negative effect on GDP; (2) Carbon intensity decreases and even CO2 emission reductions with increased GDP are potentially achieved, in both current and permanent periods, for coal-electricity and oil-electricity switching, while gas-electricity switching is not a wise choice in view of CO2 emission reduction in the long run; (3) The alternative electric appliances for electrification have very different impacts on CO2 emission reduction.
Q40|Frontiers of Low-Carbon Technologies: Results from Bibliographic Coupling with Sliding Window|It is of great significance to quickly and accurately detect the current and future development trends of low-carbon technologies (LCT). However, there is a lack of detecting research fronts of low-carbon technologies based on the bibliographic data. This paper proposes a research framework integrating LCT domains and the bibliometric coupling with sliding window technique to explore the LCT research fronts in recent decade (from 2007 to 2016). Eleven research fronts matching the foresight given by LCT experts are identified, including carbon capture and storage (CCS) in power generation, technology transfer, technology diffusion, electrocoagulation, magnetic nanoparticles, critical metals application, electrocatalytic water oxidation, ionic liquids, mutually immiscible ionic liquids, electric vehicle (China), electric vehicle (UK and USA). Closer investigation of the evolution shows that CCS application in the power plants and hydrogen production from water electrolysis are two emerging fronts. Besides, bibliometric coupling with sliding window is an effective tool to detect the frontiers of low-carbon technologies. Finally, the implications of the research for LCT monitoring and development are discussed.
Q40|Carbon emissions intensity reduction target for China¡¯s power industry: An efficiency and productivity perspective|This paper proposes a scenario analysis to address whether the national and provincial CO2 emissions intensity reduction target during 2016-2020 would be achievable for China¡¯s power industry with the identification of change on carbon productivity. This productivity indicator is further decomposed to investigate contributions of different sources to productivity growth when there exists technological heterogeneity. Evaluation results show that even if all electricity-generating units in each region were able to adopt the best practice, the nationwide 18% intensity reduction target is not feasible through improving technical efficiency or upgrading technology on electricity generation and carbon abatement in a short or medium term. The existence of regional technological heterogeneity in power generation and associated CO2 emissions reduction processes implies the necessity of more differentiated regulations and policies for emission reduction across China¡¯s regions and inter-regional technology transfer. The emerging national emission trading scheme could easy some challenges in formulating emission policy for heterogeneous regions.
Q40|Synergistic effects of environmental regulations on carbon productivity growth in China’s major industrial sectors|Abstract It is crucial that the implementation of environmental regulations have a positive synergistic effect on carbon productivity growth (i.e., environmentally adjusted productivity growth with the consideration of carbon emissions) for China to realize its sustainable development goals because the country is currently under tripartite pressures of economic growth, carbon emissions control, and environmental pollution reduction. This paper investigates the impact of changes in environmental regulation stringency on industrial-level carbon productivity growth in China. Through utilizing the information entropy method, a new index of environmental regulation stringency is established by taking into account the effects of both pollution reduction consequences and pollution reduction measures. In addition, based on the data envelopment analysis method, a Malmquist carbon productivity index is proposed to estimate the industrial carbon productivity growth of 21 major industrial sectors in China’s 30 provinces over 2004–2014. Finally, an econometric regression model is applied to test the synergistic effects of environmental regulations on carbon productivity in China’s major industrial sectors. The results show that (1) a stringent environmental regulation is associated with an increase in overall industrial carbon productivity growth in China; (2) there exist significant pass-through effects in China’s major industrial sectors that technology can transmit effectively from leader to follower; (3) there also exist obvious follow-up effects in China’s major industrial sectors, i.e., the industrial sectors that have larger technological gaps with the leaders catch up faster than others; and (4) the environmental regulations have different effects on industrial sectors with different polluting levels, i.e., there is a positive linear relationship between environmental regulation stringency and industrial-level carbon productivity growth in low-polluting industrial sectors, a parabolic nonlinear relationship between them in high-polluting industrial sectors, and an inverted U-shaped relationship between them in moderate-polluting industrial sectors.
Q40|A novel dataset of emission abatement sector extended input-output table for environmental policy analysis|Environmentally extended input-output table (EEIOT), a balanced matrix of industrial commodity and environmental resources, is widely used to evaluate environmental policy impacts. However, the existing EEIOTs contain energy consumption and pollution emission but neglect emission abatement cost and benefit. In this study, a novel Chinese emission abatement sector extended input-output table (EAS-IOT) is developed through introducing abatement cost, emission charge and abatement benefit into the conventional input-output table. Furthermore, this new EAS-IOT is applied to estimate the environmental efficiency and assess the effects of environmental policies on economy and environment. Results show that the new framework of EAS-IOT has advantage on solving the problem of biased efficiency estimation related to the conventional input-output table.
Q40|Shadow prices of direct and overall carbon emissions in China¡¯s construction industry: a parametric directional distance function-based sensitive estimation|Construction industry, together with building materials industries supplying it, is one of China¡¯s largest emitters of CO2. Structural change in construction industry has been promoted to mitigate CO2. This paper estimates CO2 shadow price of construction industry and its supporting materials industries in China so as to help them to mitigate CO2 cost-effectively. A parametric directional distance function model, taking into account all possible directional vectors, is applied to address issues regarding arbitrary selection of direction that will affect estimation of shadow price. Results show that there is larger potential for CO2 reduction in supporting material industries than in construction industry itself and shadow price of overall CO2 is much lower than that of direct CO2. The existence of enlarging heterogeneity in shadow prices among different regions provides strong support for introducing a national carbon trading market, thereby helping construction industry and building materials industries to reduce their abatement costs.
Q40|Would China¡¯s power industry benefit from nationwide carbon emission permit trading? An optimization model-based ex post analysis on abatement cost savings|The nationwide carbon emission permit trading scheme has been launched in China¡¯s power industry sector by the end of 2017. The estimation of abatement costs savings from carbon emission permit trading can provide valuable guidelines and support to environmental regulatory policies on controlling CO2 emissions. By applying a parametric and nonparametric integrating approach and conducting an ex post analysis in two scenarios (i.e., with and without carbon emission permit trading simulation), this study provides a simulative calculation of the opportunity abatement cost savings and the marginal abatement cost savings from carbon emission permit trading in China¡¯s power industry of 30 provinces. The simulation results show that: i) A 13% annually average potential on the opportunity abatement cost savings (i.e., 1024 billion yuan) would be realized if introducing a nationwide emission permit trading system in China¡¯s power industry during 2011-2015. ii) Meanwhile, the marginal abatement cost savings that range from 39 to 47 yuan/ton would be realized through emission permit trading. iii) Provinces of Xinjiang and Henan show the largest absolute opportunity abatement cost savings from trading, while Qinghai province shows the highest percentage increase in opportunity abatement cost savings. iv) Although there is significant difference in the marginal abatement cost among provinces, the marginal abatement cost savings from trading would occur for most China¡¯s provinces.
Q40|Systems Innovation, Inertia and Pliability: A mathematical exploration with implications for climate change abatement|This paper develops a stylised mathematical interpretation of innovation and inertia in economic systems, characteristics which feature in economics literature traceable back at least to Schumpeter and other economic theorists of innovation, as well as economic historians. Such characteristics are particularly important in energy systems and their potential response to climate change, where it is important to distinguish operational/fuel substitution from investment because the latter necessarily embodies both inertia and innovation, in systems as well as technologies. We argue that integrated assessments of climate abatement need to focus on investment, including the associated characteristics of both learning and inertia, and derive in detail the mathematical basis for incorporating these factors through marginal investment cost curves. From this we also introduce the concept of ‘pliability’ as an expression of the ratio between costs which are significant but transitional (including learning investments, infrastructure and overcoming inertia), as compared to the enduring costs implied by purely exogenous technology assumptions. We then incorporate these features in a global model of optimal climate mitigation and show that they can generate a very different profile and pattern of results from traditional ‘integrated assessment’ models, pinpointing the key sensitivities. We conclude that alongside all the attention devoted to evaluating climate change impacts and technology scenarios, far more effort should be devoted to understanding the structural characteristics of how the global energy system may respond to climate change mitigation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|Missing money, missing policy and Resource Adequacy in Australia's National Electricity Market|From 2012 to 2017, 5000 MW of coal plant exited Australia's National Electricity Market (NEM) with an average notice period of just 5.2 months. Exit at-scale peaked just as imbalances in the market for natural gas emerged along with Renewable Energy entry lags due to policy discontinuity. By 2016–2017, the culmination of events produced more than 20 Lack of Reserve notices, two blackouts including a black system event, and forward prices at record levels. These conditions are traced to policy decisions a decade earlier. Lessons for other energy markets undergoing transformation include transparency over exit decisions, policy stability and limits to gas export capacity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|Reactive Power Procurement: Lessons from Three Leading Countries|This paper explores the international experience in the procurement of reactive power and related electricity ancillary services. It involves system operators from different jurisdictions including Australia, the United States and Great Britain. The paper evaluates the different procurement mechanisms and related compensation schemes. In addition, it also appraises a novel approach (from the Power Potential initiative in the UK) for contracting reactive power services from distributed energy resources (DERs) using a market-based mechanism. The conceptual auction design applicable to the procurement of reactive power is also discussed. Our findings suggest that competition in reactive power is very limited in comparison with other ancillary services such as frequency regulation and capacity reserves. The introduction of more market oriented mechanisms for acquiring reactive and active power services by the system operator opens new opportunities and new ways to deal with voltage stability issues. Power Potential trails a technical and commercial solution, new market roles and the new interactions required in the introduction of a competitive reactive power market.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|On entry cost dynamics in Australia's National Electricity Market|In theory, well designed electricity markets should deliver an efficient mix of technologies at least-cost. But energy market theories and energy market modelling are based upon equilibrium analysis and in practice electricity markets can be off-equilibrium for extended periods. Near-term spot and forward contract prices can and do fall well below, or substantially exceed, relevant entry cost benchmarks and associated long run equilibrium prices. However, given sufficient time higher prices, on average or during certain periods, create incentives for new entrant plant which in turn has the effect of capping longer-dated average spot price expectations at the estimated cost of the relevant new entrant technologies. In this article, we trace generalised new entrant benchmarks and their relationship to spot price outcomes in Australia’s National Electricity Market over the 20-year period to 2018; from coal, to gas and more recently to variable renewables plus firming, notionally provided by – or shadow priced at – the carrying cost of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine. This latest entry benchmark relies implicitly, but critically, on the gains from exchange in organised spot markets, using existing spare capacity. As aging coal plant exit, gains from exchange may gradually diminish with ‘notional firming’ increasingly and necessarily being met by physical firming. At this point, the benchmark must once again move to a new technology set.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|Overlapping Climate Clubs under Transaction Costs|We examine the formation of multilateral, hub-and-spoke and bilateral international R&D strategic alliances (overlapping climate clubs) to reduce CO2 emissions. R&D provision in clubs produces two types of positive externalities: a global public good (i.e., reduction of CO2 emissions) and knowledge spillovers in joint R&D agreements. The latter is a club good. It is perfectly excludable. Its (direct) benefits are enjoyed by the club members only. Trust plays a central role in the type of alliance formation, if any at all. Lack of trust generates transaction costs, which increase with the number of R&D collaborators. We utilize the perfectly-coalition-proof-Nash equilibrium (PCPNE) concept to refine the set of Nash equilibria. Multilateral and hub-and-spoke coalitional structures are PCPNE, even in large economies containing all nations in the globe, in the absence of income transfers, for different values of transaction costs. With income transfers, fully participated multilateral coalitional structures are not stable; however, the size of the stable coalition increases as the economy expands.
Q40|Decarbonization of Power Markets under Stability and Fairness: Do They Influence Efficiency?|Market integration is seen as a complementary measure to decarbonize energy markets. In the context of power markets, this translates into regions that coordinate to maximize welfare in the power market with respect to a climate target. Yet, the maximization of overall welfare through cooperation leads to redistribution and can result in the reduction of a region's welfare compared to the case without cooperation. This paper assesses why cooperation in the European power market is not stable from the perspective of single regions and identifies cost allocations that increase fairness. In a first step, the EU-REGEN model is applied to find the future equilibrium outcome of the European power market under a cooperative, subadditive cost-sharing game. Secondly, resulting cost allocations are analyzed by means of cooperative game theory concepts. Results show that the value of cooperation is a € 69 billion reduction in discounted system cost and rational behavior of regions can maintain at most 16 % of this reduction. The evaluation of alternative cost allocations reveals the trade-off between accounting for robustness against cost changes and individual rationality. Moreover, the cost-efficient decarbonization path of the European power sector under the grand coalition is characterized by the interplay between wind power, gas power, and biomass with geologic storage of CO2. Last, with singleton coalitions only, the market outcome shifts to a higher contribution from nuclear power.
Q40|Market Liberalization: Price Dispersion, Price Discrimination and Consumer Search in the German Electricity Markets|We study how consumer search affects pricing in markets with incumbents and entrants using panel data on German electricity retail markets. Consumers observe the baseline price of the incumbent and decide whether or not to search. Incumbent providers can price discriminate between searching and loyal consumers. Empirically we show that local incumbents increase their baseline rate while entrants decrease their tariffs if consumer search increases. Moreover, the incumbent price discriminates more strongly in markets with more consumer search. Using a theoretical model, we show that these pricing patterns are consistent with the strategic interaction of profit-maximizing firms.
Q40|Policy Evolution under the Clean Air Act|The U.S. Clean Air Act, passed in 1970 with strong bipartisan support, was the first environmental law to give the Federal government a serious regulatory role, established the architecture of the U.S. air pollution control system, and became a model for subsequent environmental laws in the United States and globally. We outline the Act’s key provisions, as well as the main changes Congress has made to it over time. We assess the evolution of air pollution control policy under the Clean Air Act, with particular attention to the types of policy instruments used. We provide a generic assessment of the major types of policy instruments, and we trace and assess the historical evolution of EPA’s policy instrument use, with particular focus on the increased use of market-based policy instruments, beginning in the 1970s and culminating in the 1990s. Over the past fifty years, air pollution regulation has gradually become much more complex, and over the past twenty years, policy debates have become increasingly partisan and polarized, to the point that it has become impossible to amend the Act or pass other legislation to address the new threat of climate change.
Q40|Energy Market Integration and Electricity Trade: A gravity model|This paper explores energy trade in the electrical market by proving a solid theoretical model along with a comprehensive empirical analysis. The model rests on standard goods trade gravity models, which we adapt to energy trade in the electrical market. We derive a tractable gravity equation, which we then estimate with standard gravity techniques. We use energy trade ows between European countries to quantify the effect of economic, structural, cultural and institutional variables on energy ows. The results reveal that energy trade determinants are similar to trade in goods, and that standard notion of international economics like comparative advantage emerge in energy economics. However, we observe some distinctive traits. Our results suggest that energy trade ows are mainly driven by demand at the importer due to an increase in economic activity and institutional agreements in the context of energy integration.
Q40|The Rebound Effect in Swedish Heavy Industry|Energy efficiency improvement (EEI) benefits the climate and matters for energy security. The potential emission and energy savings due to EEI may however not fully materialize due to the rebound effect. In this study, we measure the size of rebound effect for the two energy types fuel and electricity within the four most energy intensive sectors in Sweden – pulp and paper, basic iron and steel, chemical, and mining. We use a detailed firm-level panel data set for the period 2000-2008 and apply Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA) for measuring the rebound effect. We find that both fuel and electricity rebound effects do not fully offset the potential for energy and emission savings. Furthermore, we find 2 CO intensity and fuel and electricity share as the two main determinants of rebound effect in Swedish heavy industry. Our results seems to imply that it matters both to what extent and where to promote EEI, as the rebound effect varies between sectors as well as between firms within sectors.
Q40|Why do manufacturing industries invest in energy R&D?|Energy R&D can have major social and economic impacts and is a critical factor in addressing the challenges presented by climate change mitigation policies. As well as the energy utilities themselves, firms in other sectors also invest in energy R&D; however, while various studies have examined the determinants of R&D in the former, there are no analyses of energy R&D drivers in other industries. This paper seeks to fill this gap by examining the determinants of investment in energy R&D in non-energy industries. We focus on manufacturing industries where we can differentiate between energy and non-energy R&D related expenditure. The empirical analysis is carried out for 21 sectors in Spain for the period 2008–2013. To overcome problems of data availability, we construct a comprehensive database from several surveys. The data show the importance of taking into account the efforts devoted to energy R&D by the manufacturing sectors in order to have more complete information about the total investment made in energy R&D. The results of the estimations indicate the importance of the energy R&D developed by firms that supply the energy utilities.
Q40|Kicking a Crude Habit: Diversifying Away from Oil and Gas in the 21st Century|This paper investigates the correlates of diversification away from oil and natural gas dependence in the context of the 21st century resource boom (and bust). In a sample of 40 oil- and gas-dependent economies, the majority showed significant sectoral diversification of GDP, but exports remained highly concentrated in fuel exports. Regression analysis indicates that countries that began the boom with higher levels of oil and gas dependence, poorer countries, and those with significantly larger- or smaller-than-average populations were more successful in diversifying their GDP during the commodities boom. Governance clearly matters--more effective, capable bureaucratic structures are associated with greater GDP diversification away from oil and gas--though the effects are not uniformly positive. For any given level of government effectiveness, stronger rule of law is associated with less GDP diversification. Education appears to affect GDP and export diversification differentially. Consistent with endogenous growth theory, countries with more educated populations saw greater growth in their nonresource sectors than countries with less educated populations, though education is associated with greater export concentration. Market proximity does not affect diversification. Internal economic diversification in the 21st century has been less a matter of correct policy formation and implementation and more a matter of factors that shape the policymaking environment, with the findings suggesting a difficult road to economic diversification for the Gulf Cooperation Council economies.
Q40|Interactions in Swiss Households' Energy Demand: A Holistic Approach|"This article explores the interactions between direct and embodied energy requirements of households in Switzerland in order to assess the net impacts of standard energy policies focusing exclusively on direct energy use. For this purpose, we estimate direct and embodied energy demand of Swiss households by combining consumption data of a national expenditure survey with corresponding data on energy intensity mainly from life-cycle analysis. We find strong evidence of complementarity between direct and grey energy by first estimating model parameters in a system of equations setup. In particular, the analysis of various socio-economic and psychological determinants allows us to identify a non-linear relationship between energy demand and income, which suggests that energy possesses certain ""luxury features"" that go beyond staple resources. An additional indication that households in Switzerland use direct and indirect energy in a complementary manner is provided by the coefficient of cross-equation correlation of residuals in our system. Finally, we analyze the causal relationship between both energy domains by the method of instrumental variables and find indicative evidence of a positive causal effect of embodied on direct energy demand, but not the other way round. From a policy perspective, our findings are important as they suggest that the wide-spread policies targeting direct energy consumption are unlikely to cause a substantial shift in household energy demand from the direct to the indirect domain."
Q40|Swiss Household Energy Demand Survey (SHEDS): Objectives, design, and implementation|The Swiss Household Energy Demand Survey (SHEDS) has been developed as part of the research agenda of the Competence Center for Research in Energy, Society, and Transition (SCCER CREST). It is designed to collect a comprehensive description of the Swiss households' energy-related behaviors, their longitudinal changes and the existing potentials for future energy demand reduction. The survey has been planned in five annual waves thus generating a rolling panel dataset of 5,000 respondents per wave. The first two waves of SHEDS were fielded in April 2016 and April-May 2017. This paper elaborates on SHEDS's general objectives, design, and implementation. It also reports a series of practical examples of how the datasets are being used in empirical analyses.
Q40|Redesigning a 20th century regulatory framework to deliver 21st century energy technology|Abstract Electricity systems are shifting from a once highly centralised regulated model to become more renewable, distributed and consumer-centric. Australia has some of the highest installation rates of embedded renewable electricity generation in the developed world. This has been driven by increasing grid-supplied energy prices, policy incentives and declining technology costs. The emergence of cost-effective distributed battery storage and energy management systems is likely to fundamentally alter the electricity industry—which has been largely unchanged for decades. Evolutionary economics indicates that firms must adapt to new technologies and market conditions or they will become extinct. Energy markets will only evolve, however, if regulatory frameworks continuously adapt to ensure that consumer preferences for reliability, control and environmental outcomes are able to be achieved at lowest cost. Most importantly, regulators will need to ensure that facilitating efficient consumer decision making is prioritised.
Q40|Environmental regulations and allocative efficiency: application to coal-to-gas substitution in the U.S. electricity sector|Abstract The environmental economics literature has for a long time been occupied with the relationships between environmental regulations, technical efficiency, and productivity growth. This paper extends this discussion by taking up environmental regulations’ implications for allocative efficiency. It establishes a model framework that allows disentangling managerial and regulatory induced allocative efficiencies, and utilizes Data Envelopment Analysis to a sample of 67 coal-to-gas substituting power plants observed from 2002 to 2008 to calculate Nerlovian profit efficiencies and their technical and allocative efficiency components. The empirical results illustrate that failing to control for environmental regulations leads to overestimation of managerial allocative efficiencies by ignoring compliance costs. Marginal abatement cost estimates that are in line with allowance prices for NOx and SO2 are further obtained.
Q40|Exploring the spatial and temporal determinants of gas central heating adoption|In order to better understand the potential for both policy and technological improvements to aid carbon abatement, long-term historical information on the time-path of transition from more traditional to cleaner fuels is useful. This is a relatively understudied element of the fuel switching literature in both developed and emerging economies. This research adds to this literature by examining the adoption time-path of network gas as a heating fuel. We merge a unique dataset on gas network roll-out over time, with other geo-coded data and employ an instrumental variables technique in order to simultaneously model supply and demand. Results indicate a non-linear relationship between the proportion of households using gas as their primary means of central heating and the length of time the network has been in place in each area. Proximity to the gas network, peat bogs, and areas which have banned the consumption of bituminous coal also affect gas connections. Variations in socioeconomic and dwelling characteristics at area level can also help explain connections to the gas network. A better understanding of this variation is crucial in designing targeted policies and can aid network expansion decisions.
Q40|On the Heterogeneity of the Economic Value of Electricity Distribution Networks: an Application to Germany|The reliability of the electricity grid is of vital significance for the proper functioning of a society and its economy. The aim of this study is to develop a methodology to quantify differences in the electricity distribution grid's economic importance, and investigate limitations from its application to Germany. To this end, the economic value created from electricity consumption is related to the infrastructure installed to generate that economic value. Based on the Value of Lost Load concept, which captures a consumer's willingness to pay for avoided electricity outages, a macroeconomic approach is applied to determine the economic value generated per kWh on the spatial resolution of counties. Each voltage level's grid length is selected as a proxy for the infrastructure installed. Geographic intersections between counties and network operators are exploited to harmonise these data such that both relate to the same reference unit. The results highlight electricity distribution grids of distinct relative economic importance. Especially under consideration of relevant climate risks, the outcomes strengthen the scientific basis for climate services to the energy sector, and can contribute to the design planning of the distribution grid with respect to for example resilience, redundancy, maintenance and retrofitting measures.
Q40|Effects of Changes in Wholesale Electricity Market Structure on Wind Generation in the Midwestern United States|This paper estimates the effect of starting the Midcontinent ISO electricity market in 2005 on wind generation. We find an average increase in wind plant capacity factors of 5.0-6.7% associated with the start of the market, relative to neighboring wind plants not in the market. These results are robust to potentially confounding variation associated with wind speed differences determined by weather. The increased capacity factors are likely attributed to reduced wind plant curtailment from operational improvements associated with starting the market, including improved transmission interconnections and more granular generator dispatch scheduling. We formulate a simulation model that demonstrates this mechanism. While there has been plenty of anecdotal evidence from technical experts and market participants that competitive wholesale markets are beneficial for wind energy, this analysis provides the first statistical evidence to support that claim.
Q40|Die gesellschaftliche Akzeptanz der Energiewende: Befunde eines interdisziplinären Forschungsprojektes|Die gesellschaftliche Zustimmung zu den politischen Zielen der Energiewende wird nicht unwesentlich von ihren finanziellen Verteilungswirkungen und den individuellen Gerechtigkeitsvorstellungen der privaten Haushalte beeinflusst. Die empirische Untersuchung dieses Zusammenhangs bildet den Kern dieses Beitrags, welcher die Ergebnisse des vom Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung (BMBF) geförderten Forschungsprojektes AKZEPTANZ zusammenfasst. Die empirischen Einzelbefunde verweisen auf drei wesentliche Erkenntnisse hinsichtlich der Präferenzstruktur der privaten Haushalte bei der Gestaltung der energiewendebedingten Kostenbelastung. Erstens besteht grundsätzlich der Wunsch nach einer Anwendung des Leistungsfähigkeitsprinzips bei der Finanzierung der Ökostromförderung. Zweitens kann die Unsicherheit über die Kosten der Energiewende zu einer Abkehr vom Leistungsfähigkeitsprinzip führen und drittens können Anreize in Form von Subventionen für Investitionen in Energieeffizienz zu kontraproduktiven Nebeneffekten führen.
Q40|The Value of Energy Efficiency and the Role of Expected Heating Costs|The German Energy Savings Act (Energieeinsparverordnung) requires sellers on the housing market to provide detailed information on expected yearly energy consumption per square meter. This paper uses variation of energy use and heating costs from local fuel prices, climatic conditions, and fuel types to analyze the relationship between expected energy cost savings from energy efficient building structure and house prices in a data set of listing prices from all regions of Germany. Furthermore, the role of building age for the value of energy efficiency is considered. Results suggest that agents are aware of the investment dimension of energy efficiency improvements, but not all important aspects are taken into account.
Q40|Heteroskedasticity-robust unit root testing for trending panels|Standard panel unit root tests (PURTs) are not robust to breaks in innovation variances. Consequently, recent papers have proposed PURTs that are pivotal in the presence of volatility shifts. The applicability of these tests, however, has been restricted to cases where the data contains only an intercept, and not a linear trend. This paper proposes a new heteroskedasticity-robust PURT that works well for trending data. Under the null hypothesis, the test statistic has a limiting Gaussian distribution. Simulation results reveal that the test tends to be conservative but shows remarkable power in finite samples.
Q40|The effect of financial compensation on the acceptance of power lines: Evidence from a randomized discrete choice experiment in Germany|Despite general support for the transition towards renewable energies, local opposition may hamper the required power line construction. This paper evaluates a large randomized one shot binary choice experiment with about 10,000 observations to examine the effect of annual community compensations based on current legislation as well as the effect of household compensations on the willingness to accept new power line construction. Results reveal that community compensations have no bearing on the acceptance level, whereas personal compensations have a negative effect via crowding out intrinsic motivation to support the construction project or via signaling negative impacts for residents. Thus, policy makers should refrain from financial payments as an instrument to decrease local opposition.
Q40|The role of educational trainings in the diffusion of smart metering platforms: An agent-based modeling approach|Using an agent-based modeling approach we examine the impact of educational programs and trainings on the diffusion of smart metering platforms (SMPs). We also investigate how social responses, like conformity or independence, mass-media advertising as well as opinion stability impact the transition from predecisional and preactional behavioral stages (opinion formation) to actional and postactional stages (decision-making) of individual electricity consumers. We find that mass-media advertising (i.e., a global external field) and educational trainings (i.e., a local external field) lead to similar, though not identical adoption rates. Secondly, that spatially concentrated ‘group’ trainings are never worse than randomly scattered ones, and for a certain range of parameters are significantly better. Finally, that by manipulating the time required by an agent to make a decision, e.g., through promotions, we can speed up or slow down the diffusion of SMPs.
Q40|Handle with Care: The Local Air Pollution Costs of Coal Storage|Burning coal is known to have environmental costs; this paper quantities the local environmental costs of transporting and storing coal at U.S. power plants for the sample period 2002-2012. We first demonstrate that a 10% increase in coal stockpiles (number of deliveries) results in a 0.07% (0.16%) increase in the average concentration of fine particulates (PM2.5) for locations up to 25 miles away from, and downwind from, plants. We next assess the impacts of PM2.5 on average adult and infant mortality rates using coal stockpiles and deliveries as instruments for PM2.5. Our findings within this instrumental variables framework indicate that a 10% increase in PM2.5 leads to a 1.1% (6.6%) increase in average adult (infant) mortality rates; these causal estimates are similar in magnitude to the epidemiological estimates used by the USEPA in their regulatory impact analyses. Our estimated increase in mortality rates implies local environmental costs of $183 ($203) per ton of coal stockpiled (delivered); to put this in perspective, the average power plant paid roughly $48 per ton for coal during our sample period. These sizable but highly localized environmental costs of coal transportation and storage disproportionately impact the economically disadvantaged communities living near coal-fired power plants.
Q40|Pass-Through of Input Cost Shocks Under Imperfect Competition: Evidence from the U.S. Fracking Boom|The advent of hydraulic fracturing lead to a dramatic increase in US oil production. Due to regulatory, shipping and processing constraints, this sudden surge in domestic drilling caused an unprecedented divergence in crude acquisition costs across US refineries. We take advantage of this exogenous shock to input costs to study the nature of competition and the incidence of cost changes in this important industry. We begin by estimating the extent to which US refining’s divergence from global crude markets was passed on to consumers. Using rich microdata, we are able to decompose the effects of firm-specific, market-specific and industry-wide cost shocks on refined product prices. We show that this distinction has important economic and econometric significance, and discuss the implications for prospective policy which would put a price on carbon emissions. The implications of these results for perennial questions about competition in the refining industry are also discussed.
Q40|Engaging the Private Sector for Green Growth and Climate Action: An Overview of Development Co-Operation Efforts|The private sector plays an important role in supporting green growth in developing countries. As a result, there is increasing emphasis for development co-operation providers to integrate private sector engagement (PSE) approaches into their programmes on green growth and climate change. This paper provides an overview of activities in this area, estimating that 22% of climate-related development finance supported PSE activities in 2013. It also presents a stock-taking of efforts to: mobilise private climate investment, promote green private sector development and harness skills and knowledge of private actors. The paper highlights some challenges and lessons learned, such as the need for PSE to target a wider range of environmental issues, the importance of investing in integrated approaches to enable the development of pipelines, and the need to align private sector approaches with national contexts. The findings in this paper contribute to the discussion on how development co-operation providers can improve the effectiveness of PSE approaches to promote green growth and climate action, and may be a useful starting point to guide evidence-based policy relevant research.
Q40|Price convergence within and between the Italian electricity day-ahead and dispatching services markets|In the paper we study the convergence of prices in the electricity markets, both at the day-ahead level and for the dispatching services (such as balancing and reserves). We introduce two concepts of price convergence, the convergence of zonal prices within each market (within convergence), and the converge of prices in a given zone between the two markets (between convergence). We provide an extensive analysis based on Italian data of within and between convergence. The zonal time-series of the prices are evaluated, seasonally adjusted and tested to assess their long-run properties. This evaluation induces us to focus on the behavior of the three largest and most interconnected continental zones of Italy (North, Center-North and Center-South). The fractional cointegration methodology used in the analysis shows the existence of long-run relationships among the series used in our study. This signals the existence of price convergence within markets, even though for the dispatching services market the evidence is less robust. The analysis also shows the existence of price convergence between markets in each zone, even though the evidence is more clearly armed for the North (the largest Italian zone), less so for the other two zones. Results are interpreted on the basis of the characteristics of the markets and the zones.
Q40|The Importance of Government Effectiveness for Transitions toward Greater Electrification in Developing Countries|Electricity is a vital factor underlying modern living standards, but there are many developing countries with low levels of electricity access and use. We seek to systematically identify the crucial elements underlying transitions toward greater electrification in developing countries. We use a cross-sectional regression approach with national-level data up to 2012 for 135 low- and middle-income countries. The paper finds that the effectiveness of governments is the most important governance attribute for encouraging the transition to increased electrification in developing countries, on average. The results add to the growing evidence on the importance of governance for development outcomes. Donors seeking to make more successful contributions to electrification may wish to target countries with more effective governments.
Q40|Energy Efficiency and Directed Technical Change: Implications for Climate Change Mitigation|I build a quantitative model of economic growth that can be used to evaluate the impact of environmental policy interventions on final-use energy consumption, an important driver of carbon emissions. In the model, energy demand is driven by endogenous and directed technical change (DTC). Energy supply is subject to increasing extraction costs. Unlike existing DTC models, I consider the case where multiple technological characteristics are embodied in each capital good, a formulation conducive to studying final-use energy. The model is consistent with aggregate evidence on energy use, efficiency, and prices in the United States. I examine the impact of new energy taxes and compare the results to the standard Cobb-Douglas approach used in the environmental macroeconomics literature, which is not consistent with data. When examining a realistic and identical path of energy taxes in both models, the DTC model predicts 22% greater cumulative energy use over the next century. I also use the model to study the macroeconomic consequences of R & D subsidies for new energy efficient technologies. I find large rebound effects that undo short-term reductions in energy use.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q40|Technical efficiency, productivity change and environmental degradation|This study deals with the nonparametric frontier analysis in the case of the EU 28 countries for a period spanning from 1993 to 2012. It provides statistical inference about the radial output based measure of technical efficiency under the assumption of Constant Returns to Scale (CRS) and it performs scale analysis that allows determining the nature of scale inefficiency of each data point. Furthermore, an order-α approach is developed for determining partial frontiers. Both traditional Malmquist-Luenberger and bootstrapped Malmquist productivity indexes between 1993 and 2012 are constructed. Analysis of productivity change by decomposing the Total Factor Productivity Index into Efficiency Change and Technical Change is performed showing respectively whether productivity gains derive mainly from improvements in efficiency or are mostly the result of technological progress.
Q40|Follow the Money: How Does the Income Flow After an Energy Boom|Many U.S. towns reportedly boomed after new technologies in oil and gas extraction, particularly improved hydraulic fracturing, led to rapid development of shale resources. Recent research on the expected economic impact focused on the employment multipliers associated with new oil and gas jobs. Instead, our focus is the impact of oil and gas industry growth on local earnings while paying attention to the distributional effects and assessing how much income seeps out due to the peculiarities of the industry. Our estimation results suggest that oil and gas earnings multipliers are relatively modest and mostly similar to oil and gas employment multipliers, with relatively large shares of the earnings leaving the county on average. Likewise, oil and gas multipliers tend to be smaller or comparable to the estimated multipliers for equal-sized shocks in the rest of the economy, suggesting that oil and gas is not a special industry case. Given the high wages in the sector and the large royalty payments that can go to landowners, these results may be surprising.
Q40|One Global Map but Different Worlds: Worldwide Survey of Human Access to Basic Utilities|The paper aims to reveal one integrated global map which points out the major geographical inequalities in providing basic utilities across the countries using multivariate analysis and thematic cartography. Sixteen indicators with global coverage were selected taking into account the waste collection services, sanitation facilities, drinking water sources, energy, electricity, habitat and demographic conditions. Several data are broken down for the total, urban and rural population in order to outline the rural-urban disparities between and within countries. A special focus is given to waste collection coverage, in order to compute a comprehensive global assessment of this key indicator of public health, which is one of the poorest monitored basic utility. The world countries were divided into 10 classes according to the hierarchical cluster analysis. Each class has particular features outlining the gaps between high, middle and low-income countries with direct impact on quality of life, public health, and environment.
Q40|Time-varying correlation between oil and stock market volatilities: Evidence from oil-importing and oil-exporting countries|This paper investigates the time-varying conditional correlation between oil price and stock market volatility for six major oil-importing and oil-exporting countries. The period of the study runs from January 2000 until December 2014 and a Diag-BEKK model is employed. Our findings report the following regularities. (i) The correlation between the oil and stock market volatilities changes over time fluctuating at both positive and negative values. (ii). Heterogeneous patterns in the time-varying correlations are evident between the oil-importing and oil-exporting countries. (iii) Correlations are responsive to major economic and geopolitical events, such as the early-2000 recession, the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the global financial crisis of 2007–2009. These findings are important for risk management practices, derivative pricing and portfolio rebalancing.
Q40|Comparative energetic sustainability indicators for Paroseni central heating power plant considering its cogeneration and condensing operation|The main objective of the paper is to highlight the evolution of the energetic and environmental performances of a condensing and cogeneration 150 MW power plant which for different loading levels. The values obtained from the creation of the real hourly thermalenergetic balance were graphically processed highlighting therefore the comparative evolution of the energetic and environmental parameters obtained during the condensing and cogeneration operation. The usefulness of the study is materialised through the expression of the quantitative differences between the values obtained during the cogeneration operation and those obtained during the condensing operation, situation which legally allows for a competitive price for electric energy to be obtained, energy which may be capitalized on the energy market.
Q40|Rural Waste Management Issues at Global Level(Introductory chapter)|This chapter intends to draw attention to solid waste management sector toward rural areas where bad practices and public health threats could be avoided through traditional and integrated waste management routes. The expansion of waste collection services across rural municipalities should be a priority for many countries. Agricultural and municipal waste diversion from wild dumps and open burning practices must be avoided through smart solutions at the local level which are cost-efficient particularly in developing countries. The book further examines, on the one hand, the main challenges in the development of reliable waste management practices across rural regions and, on the other hand, the concrete solutions and the new opportunities across the world in dealing with rural solid waste.
Q40|Global Energy and Sustainable Development: Introduction|Energy is a very important topic of research driving the modern world. Energy production and consumption are associated with a number of environmental effects that require effective and affordable management. Demanding an enormous amount of energy an immense dispute of energy is scale counted by energy efficiency. Oil and other fossil fuel depletion, reliance on foreign energy sources, energy needs of poorer countries, economic efficiency versus population growth debate, environmental issues like climate change, renewable and other alternative energy sources are some of the issues of concern. This Special Issue contributes to some of the important issues of global energy and sustainability. The applied theoretical and analytical contributions are expected to provide guidance to policy-makers and government officials in designing new policy scenarios for the investigation of the energy consumption and economic growth nexus. The empirical contributions provide also evidence to support and inform current policy debates.
Q40|A Review of the Nexus Between Energy consumption and Economic growth in the Brics countries|The study investigates the long run relationship and causal relationship between energy consumption and economic growth in the Brics countries during the period 1990 – 2013. The Pedroni panel co-integration method is applied to analyse the co-integration relationship among the variables. The causality relationship among the variables is analysed using Pair-wise Granger-causality technique. The study’s results reveal that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, energy consumption, employment and trade openness in Brics countries. The research outcome further detected a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to energy consumption. This implies that the conservation policies that curb unnecessary loss in energy could be implemented in the Brics countries without adversely affecting economic growth.
Q40|Energy deprivation of Indian households: evidence from NSSO data|This study examines the patterns of domestic energy consumption of households in India over the period of past two and half decades. The analysis shows that the use of energy varies across rural and urban households and also across the categories of low and high income groups. Although increase in income is accompanied with the change in household’s fuel mix but total disappearance of fuel-wood for cooking purpose is uncommon. Households wait for threshold level of income in order to change their cooking energy preferences but their lighting energy preferences change constantly with income. Further, a puzzling pattern is noticed that monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) and average calorie intake from energy sources move in opposite directions in the considered second decade of the study which this paper intends to explain. Further, this paper makes an attempt to estimate Gini Coefficients to measure energy inequality in terms of energy consumption and expenditure. This is revealed that inequality is high in the consumption of LPG in rural areas and that of electricity in urban areas. In addition to this, various methods for estimating the energy poverty are also examined. Each one leads to the conclusion that energy poverty was sharply declined in India in the period 1999-00 and then suddenly increased in 2011-12.
Q40|Whose land is it anyway? Energy futures & land use in India|Modelling studies which project pathways for the future of energy in India currently have several implicit assumptions with regards to the social, institutional, and political changes necessary for energy transitions. This paper focuses on the specific question of land use change required for realising ambitious clean energy targets. Demand for land is likely to be a critical question in India's energy future given the challenges with land acquisition in the country as a result of high population density and significant rights enjoyed by landowners. Yet, there is a lack of literature relevant to India which makes a quantitative assessment of the land use impacts of different types of low carbon technologies. I calculate and compare the land requirements in India of ground based solar photovoltaic (PV) power, nuclear power, and wind energy. All three types of technologies are expected to grow substantially as a share of India's electricity mix in the coming years. The analysis suggests that land demands of ground based solar PV are likely to be substantial compared to wind energy and nuclear power, and some policy suggestions are provided which may help mitigate that challenge.
Q40|The Role and Impact of Infrastructure in Middle-Income Countries: Anything Special?|We examine the evolution of infrastructure, and the impact of infrastructure investment, in middleincome countries (MICs). We document how different types of infrastructure stocks, as well as infrastructure investment, vary with the level of development and growth performance. We then use the two-stage approach of Corsetti, Meier, and Müller (2012) to identify exogenous public investment shocks and investigate the macroeconomic impact of these shocks. We find that the provision of infrastructure varies across development stages; there is a focus on basic infrastructure, such as transport, water, and sanitation, during early stages, and an emphasis on “advanced” infrastructure, such as power and especially information and communication technology, in later stages. Better-performing MICs tend to invest more in infrastructure. They also have more information and communication technology infrastructure. Finally, we find a more significant and sustained impact of exogenous public investment shocks on output in MICs than in low-income countries.
Q40|Carbon pricing with an output subsidy under imperfect competition: The case of Alberta's restructured electricity market|In this paper, we examine the use of carbon pricing and an output-based subsidy in a market with imperfect competition. We consider a carbon pricing policy in Alberta's electricity market as a case study. This policy consists of two phases. In the first phase, the carbon price is increased with the output subsidy being based on a fraction of facility-level emission intensity. In the second phase, the output subsidy is altered to be uniform across assets and based on the emissions intensity of an efficient natural gas asset. Using a model of oligopoly competition, we simulate the short-run impacts of the two phases on electricity prices, emissions, and unit and firm-level profitability. We find that the mechanisms by which electricity prices and emissions change in response to carbon pricing differ depending on whether the market is perfectly competitive or oligopolistic. We demonstrate that by differentiating the effective carbon price across technologies, changing the basis of the output subsidy has substantially larger price and emissions effects than increasing the carbon price for all generators. The estimated effects of carbon pricing vary as the firms’ generation portfolios change.
Q40|The effect of default rates on retail competition and pricing decisions of competitive retailers: The case of Alberta|We investigate the impacts of default regulated products and their design on the development of competitive retail markets and retailers' pricing decisions. We analyze this question in the context of Alberta's competitive retail electricity market, using data on the prices and characteristics of both regulated and unregulated retail products from July 2006 to March 2017. Our analysis consists of a descriptive discussion of the evolution of market structure in the industry, followed by an econometric analysis of the effect of default prices on unregulated retail prices. We find that as the default product moved from being a long-term stable product, to one based on short-term forward market prices, the number of products and competitors increased substantially. Our econometric analysis of the pricing of unregulated contracts suggests that competitive retailers adjust prices upward in response to short-term increases in the regulated rate, even after controlling for changes in the costs of providing retail products.
Q40|Self-Sabotage in the Procurement of Distributed Energy Resources|We analyze the regulatory procurement of electricity infrastructure that can take the form of either a traditional core investment or non-traditional distributed energy resources (DERs). We identify conditions under which a regulated utility will engage in self-sabotage (i.e., intentionally increase its own costs) in order to elicit more favorable procurement terms. We also demonstrate how the implementation of standard policies (e.g., cost reimbursement or a simple cost-sharing plan) or the adoption of a traditional core project rather than a potentially less-costly DER project can reduce procurement costs by deterring self-sabotage.
Q40|Evaluating the Enhanced Flexibility of Lignite-Fired Power Plants: A Real Options Analysis|In this paper we develop a decision tool that is based on real options analysis and that supports flexibility investment decisions concerning conventional lignite-fired power plants. The value of the power plant is influenced both by technical and economic variables, the latter including subsidies. The four-step approach proposed allows to determine the optimal operation strategy in light of electricity and fuel price developments, to simulate the project value, to determine the binomial lattice of the expected project value, and finally to infer the optimal management decision (based on the option to choose). For the case of an existing lignite-fired power plant in Germany, we find that the plant can be operated profitably without any modifications until the end of its technical lifetime only if current government subsidies persist. In the absence of subsidies, however, it is preferable to stop operation immediately. The analysis also shows that profitable reinvestments in a number of flexibility retrofit measures are possible, the ranking of which depends, however, on the costs related to the retrofitting measures and their implementation time.
Q40|Evaluating the Enhanced Flexibility of Lignite-Fired Power Plants: A Real Options Analysis|In this paper we develop a decision tool that is based on real options analysis and that supports flexibility investment decisions concerning conventional lignite-fired power plants. The value of the power plant is influenced both by technical and economic variables, the latter including subsidies. The four-step approach proposed allows to determine the optimal operation strategy in light of electricity and fuel price developments, to simulate the project value, to determine the binomial lattice of the expected project value, and finally to infer the optimal management decision (based on the option to choose). For the case of an existing lignite-fired power plant in Germany, we find that the plant can be operated profitably without any modifications until the end of its technical lifetime only if current government subsidies persist. In the absence of subsidies, however, it is preferable to stop operation immediately. The analysis also shows that profitable reinvestments in a number of flexibility retrofit measures are possible, the ranking of which depends, however, on the costs related to the retrofitting measures and their implementation time.
Q40|Impacts of an ice-free Northeast Passage on LNG markets and geopolitics|In this paper we examine the economic and geopolitical relevance of an ice-free Northeast Passage as a shipping route, with a particular view on the major LNG-supplying and LNG-consuming countries, and expected changes in LNG trade flows. Several key aspects are considered in depth, such as the developments in natural gas production in the Russian Arctic, important trends and strategies of major Asian LNG-consuming countries, and the geographical and climatic particularities of the Arctic. The analysis reveals the competitiveness of Russian LNG exports along the Northeast Passage due to Yamal LNG, which could be a game-changer for global LNG supplies. We further find that an ice-free NEP is primarily relevant for maritime bulk, and particularly LNG, shipping, and thus of great geopolitical importance and strategic interest, especially for Russia and the US on the supply side, and China, Japan, and South Korea on the demand side. The political relevance of the Arctic is becoming more lucid, because the retreating ice creates possibilities for the development of hydrocarbons but also fosters strategic and military considerations of the littoral countries.
Q40|Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Strategies for Offshore Wind Turbines Based on Condition Monitoring Systems|An offshore wind farm’s cost of energy is, to a large extent, driven by operation and maintenance costs. Through the optimization of the maintenance strategies for offshore wind farms, the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) will be further reduced, which will ceteris paribus lead to a higher competitiveness of offshore wind farms with other energy sources. This study pro-poses an event-based simulation of an offshore wind farm comprising 400 MW. The aim of the model is to minimize the total cost, and thus to maximize the revenues from the wind farm. Therefore, corrective, condition-based, and scheduled maintenance strategies are compared, and constraints, such as weather conditions and service team shifts, are taken into consideration. When hourly electricity spot prices are applied instead of feed-in tariffs, results show that weekly scheduled maintenance on a Saturday dayshift (starting at 8 am) is the most cost-efficient scenario. Condition monitoring systems have been found to be advantageous and are set as a standard application regarding the turbines. The impact of scheduled maintenance fre-quency, the distance between the offshore site and the coast, the interest rate, and altering reli-ability data are further analyzed.
Q40|Impacts of an Ice-Free Northeast Passage on LNG Trading: Transport Routes and Optimal Capacity Planning|We analyze the significance of an ice-free Northeast Passage (NEP) as a shipping route for LNG, and the impacts on alternative transport routes and -capacities. The following aspects are considered: (1) Trends in LNG production, particularly in the Russian Arctic; (2) Developments in the Asian LNG consumer market; (3) Specifics and prospects of Arctic shipping. The major LNG trade flows between producers and the Asian consumer market are modeled. Methods from Operations Research are contrasted and the Cycle-Cancelling Algorithm applied to the transportation problem, in order to achieve a cost-optimal capacity allocation. The impacts of demand variations and a chokepoint shutdown on transport routes and -capacities are considered. Concepts from competition theory are used to model the effects on LNG pricing. The key finding is that an ice-free NEP is highly relevant for shipping activities of Russian LNG producers. It constitutes a competitive advantage and notably impacts the supply competition and pricing on the Asian LNG market. A discussion of results and a conclusion critically reflect upon the research undertaken, providing an outlook and suggestions for future research.
Q40|Complexity and the Economics of Climate Change: A Survey and a Look Forward|Climate change is one of the most daunting challenges human kind has ever faced. In the paper, we provide a survey of the micro and macro economics of climate change from a complexity science perspective and we discuss the challenges ahead for this line of research. We identify four areas of the literature where complex system models have already produced valuable insights: (i) coalition formation and climate negotiations, (ii) macroeconomic impacts of climate-related events, (iii) energy markets and (iv) diffusion of climate-friendly technologies. On each of these issues, accounting for heterogeneity, interactions and disequilibrium dynamics provides a complementary and novel perspective to the one of standard equilibrium models. Furthermore, it highlights the potential economic benefits of mitigation and adaptation policies and the risk of under-estimating systemic climate change-related risks.
Q40|Faraway, So Close: Coupled Climate and Economic Dynamics in an Agent-based Integrated Assessment Model|In this work we develop an agent-based model that offers an alternative to standard, computable general equilibrium integrated assessment models (IAMs). The Dystopian Schumpeter meeting Keynes (DSK) model is composed of heterogeneous firms belonging to capital-good, consumption-good and energy sectors. Production and energy generation lead to greenhouse gas emissions, which affect temperature dynamics. Climate damages are modelled at the individual level as stochastic shocks hitting workers' labour productivity, energy efficiency, capital stock and inventories of firms. In that, aggregate damages emerge from the aggregation of losses suffered by heterogeneous, interacting and boundedly rational agents. The model is run focusing on a business-as-usual carbon-intensive scenario consistent with a Representative Concentration Pathway 8.5. We find that the DSK model is able to account for a wide ensemble of micro- and macro-empirical regularities concerning both economic and climate dynamics. Simulation experiments show a substantial lack of isomorphism between the effects of micro- and macro-level shocks, as it is typical in complex system models. In particular, different types of shocks have heterogeneous impact on output growth, unemployment rate, and the likelihood of economic crises, pointing to the importance of the different economic channel affected by the shock. Overall, we report much larger climate damages than those projected by standard IAMs under comparable scenarios, suggesting possible shifts in the growth dynamics, from a self-sustained pattern to stagnation and high volatility, and the need of urgent policy interventions.
Q40|Regional efforts to mitigate climate change in China: a multi-criteria assessment approach|Abstract The task of mitigating climate change is usually allocated through administrative regions in China. In order to put pressure on regions that perform poorly in mitigating climate changes and highlight regions with best-practice climate policies, this study explored a method to assess regional efforts on climate change mitigation at the sub-national level. A climate change mitigation index (CCMI) was developed with 15 objective indicators, which were divided into four categories, namely, emissions, efficiency, non-fossil energy, and climate policy. The indicators’ current level and recent development were measured for the first three categories. The index was applied to assess China’s provincial performance in climate protection based on the Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) method. Empirical results show that the middle Yangtze River area and southern coastal area perform better than other areas in mitigating climate change. The average performance of the northwest area in China is the worst. In addition, climate change mitigation performance has a negative linear correlation with energy self-sufficiency ratio but does not have a significant linear correlation with social development level. Therefore, regional resource endowments had better be paid much more attention in terms of mitigating climate change because regions with good resource endowments in China tend to perform poorly.
Q40|200 years diversifying the energy mix? Diversification paths of the energy baskets of European early comers vs. latecomers|The changes in the composition of the energy basket in the long run lead to energy transitions. Primary energy substitution models allow addressing these phenomena. However, the diversification paths of the energy mix of different countries in a long term compared perspective have not been studied yet. This paper proposes an indicator, based on the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, the Energy Mix Concentration Index (EMCI), to quantify the degree of diversification of the primary energy basket of eight European countries over the last two centuries. The results reveal that early comers, which are large energy consumers, required a huge concentration of their energy basket in the 19th century; however, the observed countries had converged to similar levels of diversification of their energy mixes from the second half of the 20th century, and more crucially after the oil crises. For some countries, today’s degree of diversification is the largest in their energy histories, but it is not the case for all of them. Our results suggest that small energy consuming countries would be able to achieve higher diversification, and therefore to do a faster transition to a low carbon economy, than large energy consumers.
Q40|Energy efficiency in the food retail sector: Barriers, drivers, and acceptable policies|The objective of this research is to empirically examine the drivers and barriers to energy efficiency measures in an important energy-using sector, namely the food retail sector, and support more effective energy efficiency policies for this sector. Although food retailers consume a significant amount of energy due to the refrigeration, air conditioning and specialised lighting needs of stores, there has been little research in this sector on the barriers and drivers for implementing energy efficiency measures. A survey of small food retailers was carried out to understand the barriers and drivers to greater uptake of energy efficiency measures and to examine the acceptability of different energy efficiency policy options for food retailers. In addition, external stakeholders were consulted in order to validate and contextualise the results of the survey. We find there is a complementary relationship between energy efficiency barriers and drivers for food retailers that is remarkably coherent. We identify policies, such as subsidies and support for ESCOs, that both exploit the complementarities between barriers and drivers and are acceptable to food retailers also. This methodology should help identify and design more effective policies to deliver energy efficiency improvements in the food retail sector.
Q40|Has Crude Oil Become a Financial Asset? Evidence from Ten Years of Financialization|The financialization of crude oil markets over the last decade has changed the behavior of oil prices in fundamental ways. In this paper, we uncover the gradual transformation of crude oil from a physical to a financial asset. Although economic demand and supply factors continue to play an important role, recent indicators associated with financialization have emerged since 2008. We show that financial variables have become the main driving factors explaining the variation in crude oil returns and volatility today. Our findings have important implications for portfolio analysis and for the effectiveness of hedging in crude oil markets.
Q40|Jeux d'options et stratégies d'acteurs : la confrontation des gaz de schiste américains et du gaz russe en Europe|Cet article étudie dans quelle mesure la Russie pourrait retarder une entrée massive du GNL américain en Europe en privilégiant une grande volatilité des cours sur le marché de gros du gaz en Europe. Dans un modèle de jeux d'options, caractérisé par la présence d'un fournisseur historique de gaz et d'un entrant potentiel, nous montrons que l'action visant à jouer sur l'incertitude de l'évolution du prix du gaz naturel peut prolonger d'un cran le retard de l'option d'entrée sur le marché d'un nouveau compétiteur.
Q40|Policy Development for the Energy Mix in Indonesia Using System Dynamics|"""Objective – This paper discusses a literature review regarding finding system dynamics modeling as the preferred approach to building the national energy system model in Indonesia and introduces the uniqueness of the initial system dynamics model of the Indonesia energy mix today. Methodology/Technique – A literature review about system modeling of energy portfolio management worldwide to find the research gaps and to screen for the preferred modeling approach for the country. Along with past statistics in the background, a combination of system dynamics modeling and focus group discussion is subsequently expected to answer the research questions, bridge the research gaps, and contribute a new invention to management science. Findings – The theoretical testing reveals that system dynamics modeling is suitable to simplify and simulate very large, complex dynamic systems of energy supply that get feedback from many subsystems in non-linear fashions and is a good methodology for holistic approaches to understand underlying behavior over time, taking into account all sorts of feedback, including time delays and feedback loops, and those cannot be easily represented by conventional models, vastly applied in a study of sustainable development. Novelty – The uniqueness of the proposed system dynamics approach lies in the inclusion of a series of new variables developed from common characteristic impediments in public policy development using a traditional non-simulation approach, besides its focus on the unprecedented energy supply quality side of the archipelagic country with its unique parameters being highlighted."""
Q40|One Global Map but Different Worlds: Worldwide Survey of Human Access to Basic Utilities|The paper aims to reveal one integrated global map which points out the major geographical inequalities in providing basic utilities across the countries using multivariate analysis and thematic cartography. Sixteen indicators with global coverage were selected taking into account the waste collection services, sanitation facilities, drinking water sources, energy, electricity, habitat and demographic conditions. Several data are broken down for the total, urban and rural population in order to outline the rural-urban disparities between and within countries. A special focus is given to waste collection coverage, in order to compute a comprehensive global assessment of this key indicator of public health, which is one of the poorest monitored basic utility. The world countries were divided into 10 classes according to the hierarchical cluster analysis. Each class has particular features outlining the gaps between high, middle and low-income countries with direct impact on quality of life, public health, and environment.
Q40|A Regional Trade Model with Ricardian Productivity Gains and Multi-technology Electricity Supply|This article presents an applied general equilibrium model which combines the theoretical foundations of an Eaton-Kortum type model of international trade with the complexity of a global multi-region, multi-sector Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model of production and consumption. The Eaton-Kortum model features endogenous trade-induced productivity gains via Ricardian specialization and takes non-tariff trade costs into account. Model regions and sectors can be disaggregated, e.g., representing technology-specific electricity generation. The models is tailored to explicitly study the German Federal State of Lower Saxony, a prime location for renewable electricity generation in Germany with ambitious climate policy goals. The calibration utilizes the structural estimation of a gravity model with constraints, while the disaggregation adapts methods used in regional science and energy economics. With these features the model goes beyond standard CGE models and provides new insights in the nexus between trade policy and climate policy. Simulations suggest that the removal of tariffs creates smaller welfare gains than a comparable reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade but also a slightly smaller increase in global CO2 emissions. Trade policy-induced productivity gains and renewable energy subsidies significantly reduce carbon leakage from the EU to the rest of the world by making the EU more CO2-efficient. With its large wind power potential, Lower Saxony is less susceptible to negative effects of climate policy than the rest of Germany.
Q40|Latitudinal Effect on Energy Savings from Daylight Savings Time|This paper looks at the potential systematic variation in energy savings resulting from daylight saving time(DST)in a number of geographic areas varying in latitude ranging from Northern to Southern Europe. We are using the same econometric specification and estimation method for a consistent dataset of electricity load covering 35 countries in Europe. Thus our results provide a comprehensive set of consistent and comparable estimates of the DST effect. The average treatment effect results obtained from difference-in-difference regression for 46 electricity load zones ranges from zero in northern most parts of Norway and Sweden to more than 2.5 % in a number of locations. We find some evidence that energy savings from DST decreases with latitude, and especially for homogeneous groups of countries. The diversity in estimated effects cuts across geographical, cultural and economic factors.
