Q42|Renewable Support, Intermittency and Market Power: An Equilibrium Investment Approach|Renewable energy sources (RES) play an increasing role in many electricity systems thanks to climate and support policies and subsequent cost reductions in recent years. Compared to conventional generation technologies, RES has two main important distinctive features: First, their cost pattern is characterized by high investment and negligible variable costs and second, their operational decision is governed by weather conditions limiting their availability. In this paper, we aim to analyze the role of RES in electricity markets focusing on the interplay of investment and dispatch decisions under different levels of market competitiveness and different support schemes; namely, feed-in tariff, feed-in premium, and investment subsidies. To this end, we develop a two-stage model of endogenous investment and operation with both intermittent and conventional technologies to obtain analytical solutions for investment and operation decisions. We show that there are feedback effects between the investments of different firms, and between the different technologies of the same firm. Exercise of market power results in underinvestment in the conventional technology; but the effect on renewables is ambiguous due to the interplay of opposing investment incentives. The results furthermore highlight that for the optimal design of a support policy the underlying competiveness of the market needs to be considered.
Q42|Understanding the emergence of an industry through the lens of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities|Industry emergence is a complex phenomenon. Entrepreneurship literature has been characterized by individualistic explanations (‘hero’ entrepreneurs) that have been complemented by institutional approaches including the existence of functioning ecosystems. Sociology studies could offer alternative explanations for industry emergence. We draw from the concepts of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities for framing the process of industry emergence in its initial phase. We synthesize the theoretical research on Social Movements, Entrepreneurial communities and industry emergence in an effort to develop a common conceptual framework that will help to better understand the pre-emergence of an industry. Our main contribution lies in understanding entrepreneurship and thus industry emergence as a community process in which multiple actors result eventually in a reduced number of early start-ups, which give rise to a new industry. In addition, we propose that the type of movement will lead to different enablers and barriers of industry emergence.
Q42|Energy Transition with Variable and Intermittent Renewable Electricity Generation|We propose one of the first dynamic models of the optimal transition from fossil fuels to renewables in electricity generation that takes into account the variability and intermittency of renewable energy as well as storage. This work sheds light on the extent to which variability and intermittency constitute a serious obstacle to energy transition and, given these constraints, the value of storage. The results of this model provide useful insight into the complexity of transitioning to a clean energy mix, as well as the role climate policy can play in facilitating both the growth of renewables and storage.
Q42|Prices vs. percentages: use of tradable green certificates as an instrument of greenhouse gas mitigation|The paper analyzes the problem of achieving a target path of emission reductions in the electricity sector, using a scheme of tradable green certificates (TGC). There are two types of generation, renewable and fossil. The latter causes the emissions. The paper also examines effects from emission regulation on construction of new renewable generation capacity. Outcomes are compared with an emission fee and a subsidy. The analytical results are simulated with a numerical model and social surplus are calculated for the different instruments. Two versions of the percentage requirement are devised for the TGC scheme. Results show that the target path of emission reductions is achievable, but incentives for new renewable generation capacity will be sub-optimal, regardless of the version of the percentage requirement. The TGC scheme is neither the most accurate nor the most cost-efficient, instrument but it does lead to a smaller reduction of social surplus than a subsidy.
Q42|Microeconomics of the rebound effect for residential solar photovoltaic systems|The rebound effect is a well-known behavioral response whereby potential energy savings from efficiency improvements are partially offset by increased consumption of energy services, as the marginal cost of energy services is reduced. This paper characterizes a similar rebound effect related to installation and operation of a residential photovoltaic (PV) system. This solar rebound effect is different from traditionally studied rebound effects, primarily because it is due not to an improvement in the energy efficiency of a household’s appliances, but to the supply of a zero-marginal-cost perfect substitute for grid electricity. The solar rebound effect is first derived in the absence of any subsidization mechanism. We then modify the model to account for two commonly implemented incentives: installation rebates and net metering. Rebates are shown to increase the rebound effect, whereas the effect of net metering depends on the per-unit compensation rate.
Q42|A Framework for Modeling the Dynamics of Power Markets – The EU-REGEN Model|The long-run development of power markets will be deeply affected by the gradual substitution of fossil fuel-based generation technologies by renewable energy technologies (RES). However, the intermittent supply of RES, in combination with the temporal non-homogeneity of electricity demand, limits the competitiveness of renewable energies (Joskow, 2011). We develop a partial-equilibrium model of the European power market that contributes with a framework for capturing the temporal and spatial variability of RES. Furthermore, we differentiate wind and solar technologies by different quality classes and contribute with a routine for using meteorological data to approximate the temporal availability of renewable energy technologies. The composite of all these RES features allows then for a detailed representation of RES and their implicit substitution elasticity with fossil fuel-based technologies. Our results for the long-run electricity generation path of the European power market show that, under an 80% CO2 emissions reduction scenario until 2050, renewable energy technologies become the main technologies that will meet the demand. The 2050 generation share of wind and solar power combined is around 40%. However, with the detailed depiction of their temporal and spatial characteristics, we identify that gas power is necessary as a complement to compensate for their intermittent supply, which requires in turn the utilization of carbon capture and storage to adhere to the climate target.
Q42|Modeling of electrical energy demand: beyond normality|No abstract is available for this item.
Q42|El precio spot de la electricidad y la inclusión de energía renovable no convencional: evidencia para Colombia|No abstract is available for this item.
Q42|The relationship between fuel and food prices: Methods, outcomes, and lessons for commodity price risk management|We review the fuel-food price linkage models of the time series, structural, and general or partial equilibrium nature with the main attention devoted to the time series literature. Our assessment is nested in the discussion of general commodity prices co-movement on one side and in the prediction of most likely development of biofuel policies and production development on the other side. We pay particular attention to financial markets relevant features of commodity price co-movement significant for price risk management. We show that indeed the introduction of significant biofuels policies around 2005 increased the price transmission between fossil fuels and food commodities with intuitively expected prevailing leading role of fuel prices over food prices and with particular price linkages dynamically evolving in time and depending on the particular market under consideration. The econometric results show that due to the policy induced trade barriers, there is no evidence of sufficiently integrated international biofuels market with the US, European and Brazilian markets and policies following separate paths.
Q42|Energy Consumption and Economic Growth: Evidence from Vietnam|The importance of non-renewable, renewable and sustainable energy sources and energy consumption in the economic development strategy of a country is undeniable. The purpose of the paper is to investigate the impacts of energy consumption on the economic growth of Vietnam during the 1980-2014 period. By applying the Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model of Pesaran et al. (2001), and the Granger causality test of Toda and Yamamoto (1995), the empirical results provide evidence that electricity consumption has positive impacts on Vietnam’s economic growth in both the short run and long run. For public policy prescriptions, the empirical evidence suggests that an exploration of new sources of renewable and sustainable energy is essential for long run economic development.
Q42|CO2 Emissions, Energy Consumption and Economic Growth|The paper investigates the role of consumption of both renewable and sustainable energy, as well as alternative and nuclear energy, in mitigating the effects of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, based on the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC). The papers introduces a novel variable to capture trade openness, which appears to be a crucial factor in inter-regional co-operation and development, in order to evaluate its effect on the environment, The empirical analysis is based on a sample of nine signatories to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) for the period 1971-2014, which is based on data availability. The empirical analysis is based on several time series econometric methods, such as the cointegration test, two long run estimators, namely the fully modified ordinary least squares (FMOLS) and dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS) methods, as well as the Granger causality test. There are several noteworthy empirical findings: it is possible to confirm the U-shaped EKC hypothesis for six countries, namely Australia, Canada, Chile, New Zealand, Peru and Vietnam; there is no evidence of the EKC for Mexico; a reverse-shaped EKC is observed for Japan and Malaysia, there are long run relationships among the variables, the adoption of either renewable energy, or alternative energy and nuclear energy, mitigates CO2 emissions, trade openness leads to more beneficial than harmful impacts in the long run, the Granger causality tests show more bi-directional-relationships between the variables in the long run, and the Granger causality tests show more uni-directional-relationships between the variables in the short run.
Q42|Buffering Volatility: Storage Investments and Technology-Specific Renewable Energy Support|Mitigating climate change will require integrating large amounts of highly intermittent renewable energy (RE) sources in future electricity markets. Considerable uncertainties exist about the cost and availability of future large-scale storage to alleviate the potential mismatch between demand and supply. This paper examines the suitability of regulatory (public policy) mechanisms for coping with the volatility induced by intermittent RE sources, using a numerical equilibrium model of a future wholesale electricity market. We find that the optimal RE subsidies are technology-specific reflecting the heterogeneous value for system integration. Differentiated RE subsidies reduce the curtailment of excess production, thereby preventing costly investments in energy storage. Using a simple cost-benefit framework, we show that a “smart” design of RE support policies significantly reduces the level of optimal storage. We further find that the marginal benefits of storage rapidly decrease for short-term (intra-day) storage and are small for long-term (seasonal) storage independent of the storage level. This suggests that storage is not likely to be the limiting factor for decarbonizing the electricity sector.
Q42|How sensitive are optimal fully renewable power systems to technology cost uncertainty?|Many studies have demonstrated the feasibility of fully renewable power systems in various countries and regions. Yet the future costs of key technologies are highly uncertain and little is known about the robustness of a renewable power system to these uncertainties. We build 315 long-term cost scenarios on the basis of recent prospective studies, varying the costs of key technologies. We model the optimal renewable power system for France over 18 meteorological years, simultaneously optimizing investment and dispatch. Our results show that the optimal energy mix is highly sensitive to cost assumptions: the installed capacity in PV, onshore wind and power-to-gas varies by a factor of 5, batteries and offshore wind even more. Nevertheless, we have a robust result showing that the cost of a 100% renewable power system will not be higher than today. Finally, we show that the cost of not installing the absolutely ‘optimal’ mix is limited. Contrary to current estimates of increasing integration costs, this indicates that renewable technologies will become by and large substitutable.
Q42|Mineral resources for renewable energy: optimal timing of energy production|The production of energy from renewable sources is much more intensive in minerals than that from fossil resources. The scarcity of certain minerals limits the potential for substituting renewable energy for scarce fossil resources. However, minerals can be recycled, while fossils cannot. We develop an intertemporal model to study the dynamics of the optimal energy mix in the presence of mineral intensive renewable energy and fossil energy. We analyze energy production when both mineral and fossil resources are scarce, but minerals are recyclable. We show that the greater the recycling rate of minerals, the more the energy mix should rely on renewable energy, and the sooner should investment in renewable capacity take place. We confirm these results even in the presence of other better known factors that a ect the optimal schedule of resource use: growth in the productivity in the renewable sector, imperfect substitution between the two sources of energy, convex extraction costs for mineral resources and pollution from the use of fossil resources.
Q42|Limit pricing, climate policies, and imperfect substitution|The effects of climate policies are often studied under perfect competition and constant marginal extraction costs. In this paper, we allow for monopolistic fossil fuel supply and more general cost functions, which, in the presence of perfectly substitutable renewables, gives rise to limit-pricing behavior. Four phases of supply may exist in equilibrium: sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, simultaneous supply of fossil fuels and renewables at the limit price, and sole supply of renewables at the limit price. The consequences of climate policies for initial extraction depend on the initial phase: in case of sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, a renewables subsidy increases initial extraction, whereas a carbon tax leaves initial extraction unaffected. With simultaneous supply at the limit price or with sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, a renewables subsidy and a carbon tax lower initial extraction. Both policy instruments decrease cumulative extraction. If fossil fuels and renewables are imperfect but good substitutes, the monopolist will exhibit ‘limit-pricing resembling’ behavior, by keeping the effective price of fossil close to that of renewables for considerable time.
Q42|Assessing the Techno-economic Effects of the Delayed Deployment of CCS Power Plants|Meeting the targets of climate change mitigation set by the Paris Agreement entails a huge transformation of the energy sector, as low- or no-carbon technologies must gradually substitute traditional, fossil-based technologies. In this perspective, the vast majority of energy analyses and scenarios project a fundamental role of Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS). However, uncertainty remains on the actual techno-economic feasibility of this technology: despite the considerable investment over the recent past, commercial maturity is yet to come. The main aim of this work is to evaluate the impacts of a progressively delayed deployment of CCS plants from a climate, energy, and economic perspective, focusing in particular on the power sector. This is carried out with the Integrated Assessment Model WITCH, exploring a wide set of long-term scenarios over mitigation targets ranging from 1.5°C to 4°C in terms of global temperature increase in 2100 with respect to the pre-industrial levels. The analysis shows that CCS will be a key mitigation option at a global level for carbon mitigation, achieving about 30% of the electricity mix in 2100 (with a homogeneous distribution across coal, gas, and biomass) if its deployment is unconstrained. If CCS deployment is delayed or forbidden, penetration cannot reach the optimal unconstrained level, resulting in a mix rearrangement, with a strong increase in renewables and, to a lesser extent, nuclear. The mitigation targets can be met, but policy costs without the implementation of CCS are from 35% to 72% higher than in the corresponding unconstrained scenarios.
Q42|Do Financing Constraints Matter for the Direction of Technical Change in Energy R&D?|The objective of this study is to examine the impact of firms’ financing constraints on innovation activities in renewable (REN) versus fossil-fuel (FF) technologies. Our empirical methodology relies on the construction of a firm-level dataset for 1,300 European firms over the 1995-2009 period combining balance-sheet information linked with patenting activities in REN and FF technologies. We estimate the importance of the different types of financing (e.g. cash flow, long-term debt, and stock issues) on firms’ patenting activities for the different samples of firms. We use count estimation techniques commonly used for models with patent data and control for a large set of firm-specific controls and market developments in REN and FF technologies. We find evidence for a positive impact of internal finance on patenting activities for the sample of firms specialized in REN innovation, while we find no evidence of this link for other firms, such as firms conducting FF innovation or large mixed firms conducting both REN and FF innovation. Hence, financing constraints matter for firms specialized in REN innovation but not for other firms. Our results have important implications for policymaking as the results emphasize that small innovative newcomers in the field of renewable energy are particularly vulnerable to financing constraints.
Q42|Environmental Regulation in a Transitional Political System: Delegation of Regulation and Perceived Corruption in South Africa|I study the economic motivations behind a reduction in the discretionary power of environmental regulators, and the impact that such reduction has on perceived corruption in South Africa. I examine the transition from the Air Pollution Protection Act of 1965 to the Air Quality Act of 2005, a change from full to partial delegation of regulation. By constructing a principal-agent model, I argue that this transition might have occurred because of an increase in the dispersion of rent-seeking motivations of public agents. This happens because, from the principal’s perspective, the possible harm— loose pollution control and misappropriation of environmental fines—generated by corrupt agents is greater than the potential benefits brought by diligent agents. In my empirical analysis, I use diff-in-diffs models for a two-period panel with 191 South African firms to show that the regulatory change decreased treated firms’ perceived corruption, but did not improve other institutional quality measures.
Q42|Mapping technological knowledge patterns: evidence from ocean energy technologies|This article investigates the technological knowledge pattern underlying the recent evolution in ocean energy technology (OET) trajectories, especially tidal and wave energy, ocean thermal energy, salinity gradient energy and offshore wind energy. Examination of the relational properties among the knowledge elements in the OET knowledge base, in particular, their substitutability and complementarity, allows a better understanding of the coherence of this knowledge base and the technological trajectories within the sector. We use patent data extracted from the Questel ORBIT database. The various technical options related to OETs are identified by Cooperative Patent Classification (CPC) codes and enable the construction of a dataset of OET patents granted between 2000 and 2015. We analyze the main trends emerging from the patent statistics and we construct a network of citations among OET patents and apply to it a main path algorithm. This allows a mapping of all possible streams of cumulative growth of technological knowledge and identification of the most important ones. We show that the knowledge base of OETs is split into two main families and technology patterns depending on whether the harnessing of ocean power and its conversion to renewable low-carbon electricity derive from physical or chemical science. OET trajectories are somewhat compartmentalized with few connections amongst them; however, there are links between some pivotal tidal and wave energy and offshore wind energy patents which have become the foundations to an OET knowledge base. By focusing specifically on the physics-based family of OETs, we can investigate the structural aspects of this knowledge base and analyze the aggregate level of complementarity and substitutability of its knowledge constituent. Our analysis partly confirms the increased coherence of the OET knowledge base over time but also highlights its fluctuating nature which in some ways mirrors the intermittent nature of ocean energy funding, further slowing consensus over designs which is key to commercialization.
Q42|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and research actors survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of the modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyzes the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration, and main topics studied. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues, and social aspects. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. There is a lack of recurrence, though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon-emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policymakers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q42|The asymmetric role of shadow economy in the energy-growth nexus in Bolivia|This paper estimates the energy demand function to examine the asymmetric relationship between the shadow economy and energy consumption in the case of Bolivia during the period of 1960–2015. The ambiguous empirical findings on shadow economy-energy demand nexus has inclined us to apply the nonlinear ARDL cointegration approach developed by Shin et al. (2014) and the Hatemi-J (2012) asymmetric causality test. The empirical evidence confirms the presence of an asymmetric relationship between the variables of interest. Positive and negative shocks to official GDP (true GDP) and the shadow economy have positive impacts on energy consumption. Energy consumption is positively and negatively affected by positive and negative shocks in financial development, respectively. A positive (negative) shock to capital decreases energy consumption. Another important finding concerns the complex causal direction between economic growth and energy consumption. This study provides new insights regarding to the use of official GDP (true GDP) and the shadow economy as economic tools to maintain energy demand for sustainable economic development.
Q42|Policies to Overcome Barriers for Renewable Energy Distributed Generation: A Case Study of Utility Structure and Regulatory Regimes in Michigan|Because of its environmental damage and now often being the most expensive source for electricity production, coal use is declining throughout the United States. Michigan has no active coal mining and seemingly supportive legislation for distributed generation (DG) and renewable energy (RE) technologies. However, Michigan still derives approximately half of its power production from large centralized coal plants, despite the availability of much lower cost RE DG technologies. To understand this conundrum, this study reviews how Michigan investor owned utilities utilize their political power to perpetuate utility structures that work toward the financial interests of the utilities rather than the best interests of the state’s electricity consumers, including other firms and residents. Background is provided covering the concept of DG, the cost savings associated with DG, and utility regulatory regimes at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Recent case studies from specific utility strategies are provided in order to illustrate how Michigan utilities manipulate regulatory regimes via policy misinterpretation to deter or hinder the proliferation of DG in favor of maintaining the existing interests in centralized, fossil fuel-based electrical energy production. The results of this study demonstrate how DG proliferation is hindered by Michigan regulated utilities via the exercise of political power within existing legal and regulatory regimes. This highlights the need to think about how utilities may interpret and implement rules when designing energy legislation and policy to maximize the benefits for consumers and society. Policy recommendations and alternate strategies are provided to help enhance the role of energy policy to improve rather than limit the utilization of RE DG.
Q42|The E ect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in devel- oping countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuel- wood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the xed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more pro table. We quantify both these e ects. Using our estimates we show that a fth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
Q42|Mineral Resources for Renewable Energy: Optimal Timing of Energy Production|The production of energy from renewable sources is much more intensive in minerals than that from fossil resources. The scarcity of certain minerals limits the potential for substituting renewable energy for scarce fossil resources. However, minerals can be recycled, while fossils cannot. We develop an intertemporal model to study the dynamics of the optimal energy mix in the presence of mineral intensive renewable energy and fossil energy. We analyze energy production when both mineral and fossil resources are scarce, but minerals are recyclable. We show that the greater the recycling rate of minerals, the more the energy mix should rely on renewable energy, and the sooner should investment in renewable capacity take place. We confirm these results even in the presence of other better known factors that affect the optimal schedule of resource use: growth in the productivity in the renewable sector, imperfect substitution between the two sources of energy, convex extraction costs for mineral resources and pollution from the use of fossil resources.
Q42|Prices vs. percentages: Use of tradable green certificates as an instrument of greenhouse gas mitigation|The paper analyzes the problem of achieving a target path of emission reductions in the electricity sector, using a scheme of tradable green certificates (TGC). There are two types of generation, renewable and fossil. The latter causes the emissions. The paper also examines effects from emission regulation on construction of new renewable generation capacity. Outcomes are compared with an emission fee and a subsidy. The analytical results are simulated with a numerical model and social surplus are calculated for the different instruments. Two versions of the percentage requirement are devised for the TGC scheme. Results show that the target path of emission reductions is achievable, but incentives for new renewable generation capacity will be sub-optimal, regardless of the version of the percentage requirement. The TGC scheme is neither the most accurate nor the most cost-efficient, instrument but it does lead to a smaller reduction of social surplus than a subsidy.
Q42|Intermittency and Pricing Flexibility in Electricity Markets|How can increasing intermittent power generation in the Swedish electricity system be managed in a more market-oriented and cost-efficient way? We argue that market mechanisms are the most natural means for obtaining the needed flexibility in electricity systems. We believe that a complete ex post assessment of the Swedish wholesale and balancing market functioning is crucial to determine the effectiveness of these markets in attaining their major objectives. This report identifies knowledge gaps and suggests the most relevant ex post research directions and questions for analysing the Swedish electricity markets in relation to intermittency and pricing flexibility.
Q42|The Implication of B20 Policy on Environment|This paper investigates the impact of B20 policy, with the aims to reduce fossil oil import and increase production of biofuel, on environment impact. General Trade Analysis Project on Energy and Environment (GTAP E) model is using to analyze its impact. the result shows that reduction of 20 percent on import oil gives positive impact on reduction of carbon dioxode emission. While paddy rice, forestry, vegan fruit and agriculture gives negative impact on commodity market price, and natural resources gives positive impacts.
Q42|Volumetric Risk Hedging Strategies and Basis Risk Premium for Solar Power|This paper studies volumetric risk hedging strategies for solar power under incomplete market settings with a twofold proposal of temperature-based and solar power generation-based models for solar power derivatives and discusses the basis risk arising from solar power volumetric risk hedge with temperature. Based on an indirect modeling of solar power generation using temperature and a direct modeling of solar power generation, we design two types of call options written on the accumulated non cooling degree days (ANCDDs) and the accumulated low solar power generation days (ALSPGDs), respectively, which can hedge cool summer volumetric risk more appropriately than those on well-known accumulated cooling degree days. We offer the pricing formulas of the two options under the good-deal bounds (GDBs) framework, which can consider incompleteness of solar power derivative markets. To calculate the option prices numerically, we derive the partial differential equations for the two options using the GDBs. Empirical studies using Czech solar power generation and Prague temperature estimate the parameters of temperature-based and solar power generation-based models, respectively. We numerically calculate the call option prices on ANCDDs and ALSPGDs, respectively, as the upper and lower price boundaries using the finite difference method. Results show that the call option prices based on a solar power generation process are bigger than the call option prices based on a temperature process. This is consistent with the fact that the solar power generation approach takes into account more comprehensive risk than the temperature approach, resulting in the bigger prices for the solar power generation approach. We finally show that the basis risk premiums, i.e., solar power generation-based call option prices minus temperature-based call option prices, decrease in line with initial temperature greater than around 25 ◦C. This may be because the uncertainty in solar power generation by temperature decreases due to the cancellation between the increase in solar power generation due to the increase in solar radiation and the decrease in solar power generation due to the decrease in solar panel efficiency.
Q42|The Role of Electricity in Decarbonizing European Road Transport – Development and Assessment of an Integrated Multi-Sectoral Model|Despite regulation eﬀorts, CO2 emissions from European road transport have continued to rise. Increased use of electricity oﬀers a promising decarbonization option, both to fuel electric vehicles and run power-to-x systems producing synthetic fuels. To understand the economic implications of increased coupling of the road transport and electricity sectors, an integrated multi-sectoral partial-equilibrium investment and dispatch model is developed for the European electricity and road transport sectors, linked by an energy transformation module to endogenously account for, e.g., increasing electricity consumption and ﬂexibility provision from electric vehicles and power-to-x systems. The model is applied to analyze the eﬀects of sector-speciﬁc CO2 reduction targets on the vehicle, electricity and ptx technology mix as well as trade ﬂows of ptx fuels in European countries from 2020 to 2050. The results show that, by 2050, the fuel shares of electricity and ptx fuels in the European road transport sector reach 37% and 27%, respectively, creating an additional electricity demand of 1200 TWh in Europe. To assess the added value of the integrated modeling approach, an additional analysis is performed in which all endogenous ties between sectors are removed. The results show that by decoupling the two sectors, the total system costs may be signiﬁcantly overestimated and the production costs of ptx fuels may be inaccurately approximated, which may aﬀect the merit order of decarbonization options.
Q42|How Does Climate Change Affect Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy?|Ongoing climate change aﬀects complex and long-lived infrastructures like electricity systems. Particularly for decarbonized electricity systems based on variable renewable energies, there is a variety of impact mechanisms working diﬀerently in size and direction. Main impacts for Europe include changes in wind and solar resources, hydro power, cooling water availability for thermoelectric generation and electricity demand. Hence, it is not only important to understand the total eﬀects, i.e., how much welfare may be gained when accounting for climate change impacts in all dimensions, but also to disentangle various eﬀects in terms of their marginal contribution to the potential welfare loss. This paper applies a two-stage modeling framework to assess RCP8.5 climate change impacts on the European electricity system. Thereby, the performance of two electricity system design strategies – one based on no anticipation of climate change and one anticipating impacts of climate change – is studied under a variety of climate change impacts. Impacts on wind and solar resources are found to cause the largest system eﬀects in 2100. Combined climate change impacts increase system costs of a system designed without climate change anticipation due to increased fuel and carbon permit costs. Applying a system design strategy with climate change anticipation increases the cost-optimal share of variable renewable energy based on additional wind oﬀshore capacity in 2100, at a reduction in nuclear, wind onshore and solar PV capacity. Compared to a no anticipation strategy, total system costs are reduced.
Q42|Neither crowding in nor out: Public direct investment mobilising private investment into renewable electricity projects|Rapid structural change towards a low-carbon energy supply requires significant additional investments into innovative but high-risk low-carbon technologies. Mobilising greater private investments requires applying the right policy instruments, but while fiscal measures and regulation have been well researched, systematic quantitative evidence about the effect of public direct investment is lacking. Absent empirical evidence, contradictory theoretical arguments claim that such public (co-)investments either â€˜crowd outâ€™ or â€˜crowd inâ€™ private investors. In this paper we show that the macroeconomic concept of crowding out/in is inapplicable to sectoral studies such as of renewable electricity. Instead, both neoclassical microeconomics and evolutionary economics suggest public direct investment to have a positive effect due to either externalities or market creation effects. We also provide the first quantitative estimate of the effect of public direct investment on private investment into renewable electricity technologies for 17 countries in the period 2004-2014. Using feasible generalised least squares (FGLS) and static and dynamic generalised method of moments (GMM) estimators, we find that public investments not only have a positive but also consistently the largest effect on private investment flows relative to feed-in tariffs, taxes and renewable portfolio standards in general, and for wind and solar technologies separately. Implications for policy aimed at accelerating the low-carbon transition are discussed.
Q42|Vehicle-to-Grid. Impacts on the electricity market and consumer cost of electric vehicles|Higher battery storage capacity in electric vehicles (EV) can potentially serve two purposes: First, the larger the capacity, the less need for inconvenient recharging during long trips. Second, the larger the capacity, the larger the potential gains from vehicle-to-grid (V2G) electricity supply during peak prices or during periods of imbalance. We present an analytical model for the intertwinement of the consumers’ choice of battery capacity and the potential for supplying power to the electricity market. We show that V2G increases the consumers’ choice of battery capacity, and it may reduce the cost of owning an EV vis-à-vis a traditional car. Furthermore, V2G alleviates the capacity pressure on peak hours, and thereby reduces the need for investment in backup power, saving social costs. Based on a future scenario for the Belgian electricity market, we provide a numerical illustration indicating that the savings may be substantial.
Q42|Modelling Strategy and Net Employment Effects of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency: A Meta-Regression|By conducting a meta-analysis of the empirical literature on the net employment effects of renewable energy, we explore the extent to which the reported net employment effects are driven by the applied methodology. We find that the reported conclusions on net employment effects are to a large extent driven by the methodology that is applied, where computable general equilibrium (CGE) and I/O methods that include induced effects and studies that consider only the near future in their study period (up to 2020) are generally less optimistic about net employment creation in the wake of the energy transition. In addition, we found that policy reports have a greater tendency to report a positive net employment effect than academic studies.
Q42|About the relationship between renewable energy and oil markets|This paper examines the link between oil and renewable energy markets. To this end, on the one hand, we identify high and low volatility states of oil markets, using the regime-switching EGARCH (1,1) model, and analyze its effects on the renewable energy market. On the other hand, we develop a methodology to identify positive and negative oil shocks and investigate their implications for renewable energy markets. We show that: (1) state shifts are clearly present in the oil and renewable energy data; (2) the volatility links between oil and renewable energy markets are regime-dependent. When the oil market is in a high-volatility regime, it exacerbates the volatility of renewable energy markets, but in a low-volatility regime, it has no effect or a stabilizing effect on the volatility of renewable energy market; (3) the results also reveal that the renewable energy market reacts positively to extreme upward movements of oil prices and negatively to extreme downward movements. These results have several implications in terms of policies, portfolio optimization and risk management.
Q42|Inanspruchnahme von Landwirtschaftsfläche durch Photovoltaik-Freiflächenanlagen 2015 bis 2018|Der Bericht analysiert die Inanspruchnahme von Freiflächen, insbesondere Landwirtschaftsfläche, durch Photovoltaik-Anlagen, die im Rahmen des Gesetzes für den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien (EEG 2017) eine Förderberechtigung erhielten. Die Analyse beruht auf Einzeldaten der in zwölf Ausschreibungsrunden in den Jahren 2015 bis 2018 bezuschlagten Gebote sowie aller bis November 2018 in Betrieb genommenen Anlagen. Damit werden die Ergebnisse der entsprechenden Berichte aus 2016 und 2017 fortgeschrieben. Aus den drei Ausschreibungen im Jahr 2018 resultiert eine voraussichtliche Inanspruchnahme von 807 ha Freifläche durch die geplanten Anlagen. Davon entfallen vermutlich etwa 449 ha auf Landwirtschaftsfläche. Jedoch werden die Zuschläge häufig auf andere, vom Gebot abweichende Standorte übertragen. Somit ist die Abschätzung der in Anspruch genommenen Landwirtschaftsfläche anhand der Zuschlagsdaten mit großen Unsicherheiten verbunden. Es sollte geprüft werden, ob mithilfe von Fernerkundungsdaten zukünftig aussagekräftigere Ergebnisse über die tatsächliche Inanspruchnahme von Landwirtschaftsfläche gewonnen werden können.
Q42|State mandates on renewable heating technologies and the housing market|We study the effect of a state level mandate on renewable heating technologies on the housing market. The mandate requires a minimum share of 10 % renewable energy sources when changing the heating system in the existing building stock. As renewable energy sources are still more expensive than conventional alternatives this mandate could lower the relative price of homes in the existing building stock when a replacement of the heating system is impending. We implement a two stage difference-in-differences nearest neighbor matching approach to identify the effect on prices taking advantage of differences in regulation by location and vintage of the building stock. Our results find no evidence of an effect of the mandate on housing prices.
Q42|An empirical analysis of green energy adoption among residential consumers in Poland|This paper investigates the acceptance of green electricity among Polish residential consumers. Our focus was on the socio-economic and environmental attributes of consumers in terms of their willingness to adopt renewable energy sources (RES) and green electricity tariffs. In particular, this study explores the determinants of adoption by examining consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for green electricity, willingness to switch to green electricity tariffs, and willingness to install small-scale generators in the household. The hypotheses were tested empirically with data collected by means of a standardized telephone survey of 502 household electricity consumers in Poland. Most Polish people accept and support the development of RES, but they do not know how to contribute to this process. Their WTP increases with income, education, pro-environmental attitudes, and knowledge. They also care about social influence. To increase the adoption rate of RES among residential consumers, stable legal regulations, clear procedures, subsidies, social campaigns, and educational trainings are needed. We believe that the findings from this study may be valuable for those involved in marketing green electricity offers and for politicians responsible for the increase of the share of renewables in the Polish power system.
Q42|Household willingness to pay for green electricity in Poland|This paper analyses the willingness to pay (WTP) for green electricity among residential consumers in Poland. The current share of renewable energy sources (RES) in energy consumption is around 13.5% and is expected to increase. Data were collected through a telephone survey of a representative sample of Poles. The results obtained indicate that - above all - age, income, environmental attitudes, peer support, but also, education and knowledge about RES play the most important role in explaining consumers' WTP for green electricity. Statistical analyses indicate that the mean WTP of Polish consumers is currently very low (around 0.5 USD), which is due to the relatively low GDP per capita, the lack of knowledge about green energy and no past experience with green electricity tariffs.
Q42|An empirical investigation on the distributional impact of network charges in Germany|The increase in network costs within the German electricity grid, due to a rising share of renewable energy generation, has led to higher network charges in recent years. We use socioeconomic data in order to investigate distributional effects within the period 2010-2016, and employ three different inequality metrics - the Gini coefficient, the Theil index and the Atkinson index - all of which unambiguously indicate regressive effects of network charges. The three metrics show an increase of economic inequality of at least 0.6 % when accounting for network charges. This finding is due to 1. the relative inferiority of electricity, 2. the regressive impact of a fixed component of network charges, 3. considerable regional disparities, and 4. the higher prevalence of prosumers within high-income households.
Q42|Policies for decarbonizing a liberalized power sector|Given the agreed urgency of decarbonizing electricity and the need to guide decentralized private decisions, an adequate and credible carbon price appears essential. The paper models and quantifies the break-even carbon price for mature zero-carbon electricity investments. It appears an attractive alternative given the difficulty of measuring the social cost of carbon, but modelling shows it extremely sensitive to projected fuel prices, the rate of interest, and the capital cost of generation options, all of which are very uncertain. This has important implications, and justifies combining a carbon price floor with suitable long-term contracts for electricity investments.
Q42|EEG - eine neue Kostenabschätzung: Mögliche Entwicklungen der Förderkosten bis 2020 und 2025|In der vorliegenden Studie wird die zukünftige Entwicklung der EEG-Umlage prognostiziert. Für die Berechnung der Umlage werden die zukünftigen Förderkosten, welche sich aus der Diffe-renz der Auszahlungen an die Betreiber der Anlagen und den Einnahmen durch die Vermark-tung des Stroms aus erneuerbaren Energien ergeben, in drei Szenarien abgeschätzt. In einem Szenario werden die Annahmen beziehungsweise geplanten Ausbaupfade der Regierung für die Berechnung berücksichtigt. In zwei weiteren Szenarien werden eher pessimistische oder auch optimistische Annahmen bezüglich der Strompreisentwicklung und weiterer Faktoren ge-troffen. Somit erlaubt der Vergleich der drei Szenarien eine realistische Schätzung für einen Korridor, in dem sich die zukünftigen Kosten bewegen werden. [...]
Q42|Inanspruchnahme von Landwirtschaftsfläche durch Freiflächen-Photovoltaik-Anlagen im Jahr 2017|Der Bericht analysiert die Inanspruchnahme von Freiflächen, insbesondere Landwirtschaftsfläche, durch Photovoltaik-Anlagen, die im Rahmen des Gesetzes für den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien (EEG 2017) eine Förderberechtigung erhielten. Die Analyse beruht auf Einzeldaten der in neun Ausschreibungsrunden 2015 bis 2017 bezuschlagten Gebote sowie aller bis November 2017 in Betrieb genommenen Anlagen. Aus den drei Ausschreibungen 2017 resultiert eine voraussichtliche Inanspruchnahme von 939 ha Freifläche durch die geplanten Anlagen. Davon entfallen vermutlich etwa 364 ha auf Landwirt-schaftsfläche, ähnlich viel wie in den Vorjahren. Die Daten der in Betrieb genommenen Anlagen lassen eine Abschätzung darüber, wieviel Landwirtschaftsfläche durch die realisierten Vorhaben tatsächlich in Anspruch genommen wurde, nicht zu. Um ein Monitoring der Flächeninanspruch-nahme zu ermöglichen, wird eine verbesserte Datenaufbereitung und Plausibilitätsprüfung der gemeldeten Daten empfohlen.
Q42|Heterogeneous preferences and the individual change to alternative electricity tariffs|Based on data from a large-scale computer-based survey among more than 3700 German citizens, this paper empirically examines the determinants of the general change of electricity tariffs and the specific change to green tariffs. Our econometric analysis with binary probit and multinomial logit models reveals a strong relevance of behavioral factors and individual values. For example, patience (which is measured by an incentivized experiment that was included in the survey) is significantly positively correlated with general changes to alternative electricity tariffs. Furthermore, social preferences (also measured by an incentivized experiment) and trust have an even stronger significantly positive effect on the specific change to green electricity tariffs. Our estimation results also imply an important role of political identification, i.e. citizens with a left-wing orientation significantly more often switch an electricity tariff and an ecological political orientation has a strong significantly positive effect on the change to a green electricity tariff. Furthermore, several socio-demographic and socio-economic variables like age, gender, or household income are also relevant. The empirical analysis thus provides new explanation patterns for the phenome-non that only a small number of households regularly change their electricity tariff and specifically to green tariffs, although they have high stated preferences for such changes. Our insights suggest several directions for policy, but also for electricity providers, to in-crease these switching rates. For example, the high importance of trust attitudes for the change to green electricity tariffs suggests a transparency initiative of electricity providers to decrease reservations against green power.
Q42|Effects of Attribute-Based Regulation on Technology Adoption - The Case of Feed-In Tariffs for Solar Photovoltaic|Feed-in tariffs are a widely used policy instrument to support deployment of renewable energy technologies. The aim of this paper is to estimate the causal effect of a cut in feed-in tariffs on solar photovoltaic (PV) installations. I isolate this effect by a differences-in-differences approach using data on all grid-connected PV systems within Germany from 2009 until 2013 on a county level. A policy change of administrative size classes in 2012 provides exogenous variation in feed-in tariffs. I find that a cut in feed-in tariffs of five percent leads to a decrease in newly installed capacity of around 46 kilowatt (kW) in a county per month. This is equivalent to approximately three percent of the average annual solar PV deployment on a national level from 2009 to 2011. The re-evaluation of size classes implies de facto the introduction of attribute-based regulation for small installations. The design of differentiated rates incentivizes smaller individual capacity choices at the border of size classes. This leads to excess bunching at the ceiling of the smaller size class. Neglecting this leads to overestimating treatment effects by around double the size. This potential bias underlines the impact of attribute-based regulation on technology adoption for solar PV.
Q42|Using emissions trading schemes to reduce heterogeneous distortionary taxes: The case of recycling carbon auction revenues to support renewable energy|While emissions trading schemes are developed by nations to mitigate their greenhouse gas emissions, behavioural studies have shown that the political and public acceptability of these market-based instruments depends on the way the associated revenues are used. One option the general public approves of is to use them to support renewable energy. If this consists in reducing a pre-existing electricity levy that heterogeneously applies to the various sectors of the economy, the reduction of this distortionary tax thanks to the carbon revenues results in general equilibrium effects that may have unequal sectoral impacts. This is what we examine in the case of the European Union. With a modelling approach including a detailed disaggregation of European sectors, we find that using auction revenues from the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to support electricity generation from renewable sources results in a 2% rise in electricity demand in the whole economy due to the reduced electricity levy that electricity consumers have to pay to support renewable energy. This results in a 1.8% ETS carbon price increase. The carbon constraint for the non-ETS sectors is 5.9% looser as a consequence of the larger electricity use by these sectors. While the energy intensive sectors generally benefit from electricity levy exemptions, we observe that, due to the energy and ETS price increase, the combination of these exemptions and of the use of carbon auction revenues to support renewable energy makes the ETS sectors worse off than if carbon revenues are transferred to households. In aggregate, the recycling option analysed here results in a GDP gain due to its impacts on the non-ETS sectors, the reduction of the electricity levy and associated distortionary effects.
Q42|State-Owned Enterprises and the Low-Carbon Transition|This paper explores the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the low-carbon transition in OECD and G20 countries. It tracks GHG emissions and energy investments by SOEs and analyses the impact of SOEs on investments in renewable electricity. A descriptive analysis of SOEs’ role in the electricity sector shows the continued importance of SOEs, including prominent investments in both renewables and fossil-fuel-based electricity generation..
Q42|OECD Progress Update on Approaches to Mobilising Institutional Investment for Sustainable Infrastructure|The large need for investments in sustainable infrastructure will require investments from the private sector, including institutional investors. This working paper contributes to scaling up investments by analysing public project-level interventions for projects involving institutional investors. It presents findings from an updated database on institutional investments in environmentally sustainable infrastructure with project-level intervention by the public sector.
Q42|Power struggle: Decarbonising the electricity sector|This report investigates the effects of select climate policies, non-climate policies, as well as political economy factors on the decarbonisation of electricity in OECD countries from 2000 to 2015. Effects are analysed on the three phases of decarbonisation: (1) increasing the share of renewables installed, (2) increasing the use of renewables in generation, and (3) reducing the emissions from electricity.
Q42|Pass-Through as a Test for Market Power: An Application to Solar Subsidies|We formalize pass-through over-shifting as a simple yet under-utilized test for market power. We apply this test in the market for solar energy. Specifically, we estimate the pass-through of solar subsidies to solar system prices using rich micro-level transaction and subsidy data from California. Buyers of solar systems capture nearly the full subsidy, while there is more-than- complete pass-through to lessees. We conclude that solar markets are imperfectly competitive by ruling out alternative explanations for over-shifting, and reinforce this conclusion with a test of solar demand curvature. This procedure can serve to detect market power beyond the solar market.
Q42|A Comparison of Multi-step GDP Forecasts for South Africa|To forecast at several, say h, periods into the future, a modeller faces two techniques: iterating one-step ahead forecasts (the IMS technique) or directly modeling the relation betwen observations separated by an h-period interval and using it for forecasting (DMS forecasting). It is known that structural breaks, unit-root non-stationarity and residual autocorrelation benefit DMS accuracy in finite samples, all of which occuring when modelling the South African GDP over the last thirty years. This paper analyzes the forecasting properties of the model developed by Aron and Muellbauer (2002) and compares with them that of 30 derived or competing models. We find that the GDP of South Africa is best forecast, 4 quarters ahead, using the technique developed by these authors and its variants as derived in the present paper. Rankings of other models vary over time and it is difficult to recommend one of them as a rule in this exercise.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q42|A Note on Growth, Energy Intensity and the Energy Mix: A Dynamic Panel Data Analysis|This paper explores how changes in energy intensity and the switch to renewables can boost economic growth. In doing so, we implement a dynamic panel data approach on a sample of 134 countries over the period 1960 to 2010. We incorporate a set of control variables, related to human and physical capital, socio-economic conditions, and policies which are widely used in the associated literature. According to our results, and given the current state of technology, improving energy intensity is an approach that could reconcile growth and the environment at the worldwide level. Moving to conventional renewables (biomass and hydro) may reduce CO2 emissions, consistent with the related literature, although we do not find evidence that supports a growth enhancing effect. However, moving to frontier renewables (wind, solar, wave or geothermic) does reconcile the reduction of CO2 emissions with economic growth. Our results are robust to the specification of the dynamic panel with respect to three alternative methods, namely, the pooled OLS regression, the regression under fixed effects, and the GMM estimation.
Q42|An Overwiew of Economic Impacts of U.S. Shale Gas Revolution|This paper aims to analyze the possible shale gas development in context of energy security as based on the experience of shale revolution in the USA. It focuses on updating research on shale gas, explaining its specifics, discussing the US model of shale gas development and possible impacts on the EU energy market. It provides a literature review, an overview of the worldwide shale gas development and discusses the most relevant related environmental issues connected with shale gas.
Q42|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia.
Q42|Investigating the linkage between Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth: The case of Turkey|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q42|The causal linkages between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q42|Simulating the potential of swarm grids for pre-electrified communities - A case study from Yemen|Swarm grids are an emerging approach for electrification in the Global South that interconnects individual household generation and storage to a small electricity network for making full use of existing generation capacities. Using a simulation tool for demand, weather, and power flows, we analyse the potential of an AC swarm grid for a large preelectrified village in rural Yemen. Service quality and financial indicators are compared to the cases of individual supply and a centralised micro grid. While the swarm grid would, in fact, improve supply security from currently 12.4 % (Tier 2) to 81.7 % (Tier 3) at lower levelised costs, it would be inferior to the micro grid in both service (Tier 4) and costs. This is mainly driven by the large pre-installed fossil-fuel generator and storage capacities in our case study. However, this situation may be representative for other relevant locations. Under these conditions, a swarm grid poses the danger to create (possibly-undesired) incentives to invest in diesel generators, and it may fail to support prosumerism effectively. Nevertheless, the swarm’s evolutionary nature with the possibility for staggered investments (e.g. in smaller yet complementary groups of consumers) poses a central advantage over micro grids in the short-term alleviation of energy poverty.
Q42|Econometric modelling of the link between investment and electricity consumption in Ghana|The study examines the long run effect of investment (proxied by gross fixed capital formation) on electricity consumption for Ghana, for the period 1971-2011, by employing annual time series secondary data from World Bank database (World development indicator). The Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests were used to analyse the stationarity features of the data used in levels and in their first differences. The empirical verification was done using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL). The findings of the study indicate the data used are non-stationary in levels, however, stationary in their first difference. Investment and electricity consumption are cointegrated according to the cointegration test performed. There are both stable short run and long run relationship between investment and electricity consumption. Investment is an appropriate policy tool for electricity consumption management in both short run and long run. Further studies in the area of stationarity with structural breaks, cointegration with structural breaks, causality analysis, and multivariate modelling of investment-electricity consumption link is worth doing since the current study did not consider these issues.
Q42|Linking soy oil demand from the US Renewable Fuel Standard to palm oil expansion through an analysis on vegetable oil price elasticities|The United States (US) Renewable Fuel Standard and California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard support the use of soy biodiesel and renewable diesel in the transport fuel supply for climate mitigation. However, linkages between the markets for soy oil and palm oil, which is associated with very high land use change emissions, could negatively affect the climate performance of soy-based biofuels. This study estimates the own and cross-price elasticities for the supply of soy and palm oils in the US using country-level data from 1992 to 2016 under rational expectations, through a seemingly unrelated regressions system of equations. We find a positive cross-price elasticity of palm oil import with respect to soy oil price and a positive reaction of supply of soy oil to increase in prices of palm oil. These results suggest that US biofuel policies may underestimate substitution between soy and palm oils and thus overestimate the climate benefits from soy-based biofuel.
Q42|Using real options to study the impact of capacity additions and investment expenditures in renewable energies in India|We calculate the overall policy value of installed capacity additions and investment expenditures in wind and solar energies in India. Recent increases in capacity additions and investments by both the public and private sectors alongwith government support schemes have made these energies more competitive with traditional fuels like coal in generating electricity. We use a two-factor learning curve to model the decline in prices of wind and solar energies. Employing a real options approach with global coal prices as the stochastic variable we find the overall value of promotion policies in renewables to be sufficiently large. Reducing the share of coal in electricity generation is one of India’s stated goals and a high trigger price of coal suggests continued efforts of capacity additions and investment expenditures in the solar and wind sectors are needed for some time in India.
Q42|Renewable energy price-control policy in the presence of innovation: is government pre-commitment preferable?|In a perfectly competitive market with a possibility of technological innovation we analyze guaranteed feed-in tariffs for electricity from renewables from a dynamic efficiency and social welfare point of view. Specifically, we model decisions about the technological innovation with convex costs within the framework of a game-theoretic model, and discuss implications for optimal policy design under different assumptions regarding regulatory pre-commitment. We find that in terms of dynamic efficiency no pre-commitment policies are shown to be at least as good as the pre-commitment ones. Thus, a government with a preference for innovation being performed if the achievable cost reduction is high should be in favor of the no pre-commitment regime.
Q42|Comparison between ideal and estimated pv parameters using evolutionary algorithms to save the economic costs|Micro grids are now emerging from lab modules sites into commercial markets, driven by technological improvements, falling costs, a proven track record, and growing recognition of their benefits. Their main contribution is to improve reliability and resilience of electrical grids, to manage the addition of distributed clean energy resources like wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) generation to reduce fossil fuel emissions, and to provide electricity in areas not served by centralized electrical infrastructure. In between, the popularity of photovoltaic panel is not deniable. In this paper, the ideal and practical electrical model of PV is being discussed. Due to significant role of the PV parameters, they are assessed by several heuristic methods and the results are compared. Hence an optimal method for parameter estimation is discussed that can be used in micro grid simulations to reach to an optimal quiescent working condition.
Q42|Costs and competitive advantage of nearshore wind energy|Nearshore wind development has been seen as the cost reducing option that could shrink the cost gap between onshore and offshore development. The cost advantage is linked to more shallow water and shorter connection to shore even avoiding an offshore substation. Public tendering for offshore wind in Denmark has opened up for near-shore wind turbine farms as an alternative for lowering the cost of new offshore wind development. Whether these proposed near-shore locations will manage to significantly lower costs is not clear. The tenders have resulted in bids that are at comparable levels for the nearshore and the further offshore wind farms. We compare the cost drivers and possible cost differentials with preferences for locating wind farms further away from the coast. The main cost driver is water depth and in the Danish case water depth is increasing slowly or is not even correlated with the distance from shore. Therefore the willingness to pay for moving turbines away from the coast may be sufficiently high to balance the increased cost. The actual comparison of costs and willingness to pay must be carried out for the specific case with cost characteristics and willingness to pay by the affected population.
Q42|Green Energy Finance in Australia and New Zealand|We explore the history and current status of green energy finance in Australia and New Zealand. Although both countries have enviable renewable energy resources with a 100% renewable mix considered feasible, the two countries present highly contrasting contexts for energy finance. Currently, and largely for historical reasons, renewables make up over 80% of the electricity capacity in New Zealand, whereas in Australia this is 17%. Interestingly, between them and over time, the two countries have employed most of the important policy tools available to incentivize renewables and green energy finance (e.g., carbon taxes, carbon trading, a green investment bank, a green certification market, and feed-in-tariffs). Despite this, we show that between 2004 and 2017 both countries did not meet their potential in terms of renewables and have lower levels of green energy investment relative to gross domestic product per capita than many other developed countries. The Australian and New Zealand context provides many lessons for other jurisdictions—ranging from the need for cross-party and regulatory commitment to energy transition, to the need for policy stability. Indeed, a key issue in Australia and New Zealand is the challenge of designing electricity markets that support energy transition and the investment that it requires. Incumbents in both jurisdictions are fearful of a “death spiral” induced by distributed power, and in Australia political instability and market design issues contributed to a major energy crisis in 2017. However, the crisis, the Paris Agreement, and the associated impetus of new governments in both countries suggest green energy investment is set to increase in the coming years.
Q42|Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy Considering Contributions to Security of Supply|Electricity markets are increasingly inﬂuenced by variable renewable energy such as wind and solar power with a pronounced weather-induced variability and imperfect predictability. As a result, the evaluation of the capacity value of variable renewable energy, i.e. its contribution to security of supply, gains importance. This paper develops a new methodology to endogenously determine the capacity value in large-scale investment and dispatch models for electricity markets. The framework allows to account for balancing eﬀects due to the spatial distribution of generation capacities and interconnectors. The practical applicability of the methodology is shown with an application for wind power in Europe. We ﬁnd that wind power can substantially contribute to security of supply in a decarbonized European electricity system in 2050, with regional capacity values ranging from 1 - 40%. Analyses, which do not account for the temporal and spatial heterogeneity of the contribution of wind power to security of supply therefore lead to ineﬃcient levels of dispatchable back-up capacity. Applying a ﬁxed wind power capacity value of 5% results in an overestimation of ﬁrm capacity requirements in Europe by 66GW in 2050. This translates to additional ﬁrm capacity provision costs of 3.8 bn EUR per year in 2050, which represents an increase of 7%.
Q42|Cost-Effectiveness of Li-Ion Battery Storage with a Special Focus on Photovoltaic Systems in Private Households|Using a self-developed economic model with a technical battery aging component, this paper provides a new approach to evaluating the economic efficiency of Li-ion battery storage. We use our model to quantify the increase in self-consumption of electricity from a solar photovoltaic system by means of a home battery storage system. Regarding battery aging, we find that the longest battery lifetimes can be achieved with the highest state-of-charge limit, which is, however, not economically efficient due to limited self-consumption. Although one of the three battery pooling concepts was identified as not being economically efficient, namely the case of Sonnen, our evaluation shows that economic efficiency can, in principle, be achieved with home battery pooling concepts. In future research, the model-based impacts on self-consumption and batteryaging found here ought to be validated by using real world data from the systems analyzed.
Q42|Locational (In-)Efficiency of Renewable Power Generation Feeding in the Electricity Grid: A Spatial Regression Analysis|This paper analyzes the negative external effects caused by the introduction of variable renewable energy sources into an inflexible power system. We investigate the costs that arise due to the need for temporarily reducing their output to relief grid overstress in the case of high electricity feed-in. The responsible system operator has to remunerate the power plant operator for this lost output. The resulting costs for the system operator, the so-called feed-in management costs, are passed on to the end-consumers in the respective region via the grid use tariff scheme. In this paper, we develop a two-part regression model that explains (i) the occurrence of feed-in management and (ii) the regional variation of feed-in management costs. In the first part, we use a logit model to explain why some regions experienced feed-in management in recent years and others did not. The second part covers an augmented spatial econometric model that investigates the interregional variability of feed-in management costs. The estimates of both models show that especially the installed capacity of wind energy connected to the medium and high voltage level have a negative impact on feed-in management and that high load in a region reduces the need for feed-in management measures. The augmented spatial model indicates for the case of four major DSOs in Germany that an increase by 1 MW of wind energy capacity at the medium and high voltage level lead to an increase in feed-in management costs by 1.9% and 0.9% in regions that already experienced feed-in management, respectively. The policy implication of this finding is that price signals for the reinforcement of the grid infrastructure or for the siting of VRES should be given.
Q42|Optimizing The Method Of Sawmill By-Product Management: Selected Methodological Issues|This paper presents a valuation method for sawmill by-products processed into energy. The method includes a set of indexes enabling entrepreneurs who own sawmill by-products to assess the economic viability of processing them into biofuels and energy. The indexes include: the threshold margin, maximum processing costs, maximum purchase price of by-products intended for processing, and minimum sales price of the product acceptable to the producer. A multidimensional analysis of above indexes was performed, and may provide a basis for assessing the economic viability of various methods of wood by-product management as an alternative to selling by-products in an unprocessed condition. As regards energy production, the method takes into account both the use of energy for own purposes and sale of energy to external customers.
Q42|Counterfactual comparisons of investment options for wind power and agricultural production in the United States: Lessons from Northern Ohio|We analyze potential efficiency gains in wind power projects by comparing counterfactual investment decisions in two different scenarios under a real options framework. The first scenario is a standard wind power investment, where the investor rents the land from local farms. In the second scenario, the wind power investor buys the land and commercializes both electricity and crop production, thus shortening the revenue risk through the diversification. Both scenarios have a waiting option, with the wholesale prices leading the installation decision. We model the electricity price as a mean reverting process with jumps and with different jumping probabilities for the different seasons of the year. Corn prices follow a mean reverting process. The waiting flexibility was modeled as a bundle of European options. The results indicate that the waiting option is exercised in 100% of our simulations in both scenarios, suggesting the still important role of government policies to stimulate wind power. More importantly, in more than 90% of the simulations, the second scenario brought value to the investment. Furthermore, net present values are more sensitive to reductions in capital costs than electricity prices. These results can form the basis for more effective policies for the wind power sector.
Q42|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation| This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q42|Bridging the gap: Do fast-reacting fossil technologies facilitate renewable energy diffusion?|The diffusion of renewable energy in the power system implies high supply variability. Lacking economically viable storage options, renewable energy integration is possible thanks to the presence of modern mid-merit fossil-based technologies, which act as back-up capacity. This paper discusses the role of modern fossil-based power generation technologies in supporting renewable energy investments. We study the deployment of these two technologies conditional on all other drivers in 26 OECD countries between 1990 and 2013. We show that moving from the first to the third quartile of the distribution of modern fossil technologies is associated with an increase in yearly renewable energy investment of between 6 and 14 kW per thousand people, on average and ceteris paribus. This is a sizeable effect, considering that average yearly renewable capacity addition in our sample are around 12 kW per thousand people. These findings are robust to different econometric specifications, various definitions of modern fossil technologies and are stronger for wind, which is more intermittent and for which the mismatch between supply and demand is more marked. Our analysis points to the substantial indirect costs of renewable energy integration and highlights the complementarity of investments in different generation technologies for a successful decarbonization process.
Q42|Framing policy on low emissions vehicles in terms of economic gains: might the most straightforward gain be delivered by supply chain activity to support refuelling?|A core theme of the UK GovernmentÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s new Industrial Strategy is exploiting opportunities for domestic supply chain development. This extends to a special Ã¢â‚¬ËœAutomotive Sector DealÃ¢â‚¬â„¢ that focuses on the shift to low emissions vehicles (LEVs). Here attention is on electric vehicle and battery production and innovation. In this paper, we argue that a more straightforward gain in terms of framing policy around potential economic benefits may be made through supply chain activity to support refuelling of battery/hydrogen vehicles. We set this in the context of LEV refuelling supply chains potentially replicating the strength of domestic upstream linkages observed in the UK electricity and/or gas industries. We use input-output multiplier analysis to deconstruct and assess the structure of these supply chains relative to that of more import-intensive petrol and diesel supply. A crucial multiplier result is that for every Ã‚Â£1million of spending on electricity (or gas), 8 full-time equivalent jobs are supported throughout the UK. This compares to less than 3 in the case of petrol/diesel supply. Moreover, the importance of service industries becomes apparent, with 67% of indirect and induced supply chain employment to support electricity generation being located in services industries. The comparable figure for GDP is 42%.
Q42|Energy and Climate|Carbon dioxide emissions have grown less fast than the economy because of improvements in energy efficiency. Switching to less carbon-intensive fuels and climate policy have played a minor role. Scenarios of future emissions are optimistic about economic growth and energy efficiency, and the higher scenarios assume resurgent coal use at odds with current trends. Climate policy is cheap for moderate targets and smart implementation. Costs are much higher for more realistic policies and for more stringent targets. The negative emission required by the Paris Agreement would need large subsidies. Greenhouse gas emission reduction is a global public good that is hard to provide. Key players in the climate debate benefit from the rents created by inefficient policies, from causing confusion, and from mixing climate with other matters.
Q42|Latent Volatility Granger Causality and Spillovers in Renewable Energy and Crude Oil ETFs|The purpose of the paper is to examine latent volatility Granger causality for four renewable energy Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and crude oil ETF (USO), namely solar (TAN), wind (FAN), water (PIO), and nuclear (NLR). Data on the renewable energy and crude oil ETFs are from 18 June 2008 to 20 March 2017. From the underlying stochastic process of a vector random coefficient autoregressive (VRCAR) process for the shocks of returns, we derive Latent Volatility Granger causality from the Diagonal BEKK multivariate conditional volatility model. We follow Chang et al. (2015)’s definition of the co-volatility spillovers of shocks, which calculate the delayed effect of a returns shock in one asset on the subsequent volatility or co-volatility in another asset, and extend the effects of the co-volatility spillovers of shocks to the effects of the co-volatility spillovers of squared shocks. The empirical results show there are significant positive latent volatility Granger causality relationships between solar (TAN), wind (FAN), nuclear (NLR), and crude oil (USO) ETFs, specifically significant volatility spillovers of shocks from solar ETF on the subsequent wind ETF co-volatility with solar ETF, and wind ETF on the subsequent solar ETF co-volatility with wind ETF. Interestingly, there are significant volatility spillovers of squared shocks for the renewable energy ETFs, but not with crude oil ETFs.
Q42|Latent Volatility Granger Causality and Spillovers in Renewable Energy and Crude Oil ETFs|The purpose of the paper is to examine latent volatility Granger causality for four renewable energy Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and crude oil ETF (USO), namely solar (TAN), wind (FAN), water (PIO), and nuclear (NLR). Data on the renewable energy and crude oil ETFs are from 18 June 2008 to 20 March 2017. From the underlying stochastic process of a vector random coefficient autoregressive (VRCAR) process for the shocks of returns, we derive Latent Volatility Granger causality from the Diagonal BEKK multivariate conditional volatility model. We follow Chang et al. (2015)’s definition of the co-volatility spillovers of shocks, which calculate the delayed effect of a returns shock in one asset on the subsequent volatility or co-volatility in another asset, and extend the effects of the covolatility spillovers of shocks to the effects of the co-volatility spillovers of squared shocks. The empirical results show there are significant positive latent volatility Granger causality relationships between solar (TAN), wind (FAN), nuclear (NLR), and crude oil (USO) ETFs, specifically significant volatility spillovers of shocks from solar ETF on the subsequent wind ETF co-volatility with solar ETF, and wind ETF on the subsequent solar ETF covolatility with wind ETF. Interestingly, there are significant volatility spillovers of squared shocks for the renewable energy ETFs, but not with crude oil ETFs.
Q42|Sunspots that matter: the effect of weather on solar technology adoption|This paper tests for the effect of weather on solar technology adoption, taking advantage of the fact that sunshine is a direct input factor for solar electricity production. I find that a one standard deviation increase in monthly sunshine hours above the long-term average leads to an approximate 6.2 % growth in the residential solar market over a six-month period. I consider a range of potential mechanisms and find strong evidence for projection bias and salience as key drivers of my results. My findings show that there is an asymmetric response to positive and negative sunshine deviations from the long-term mean and that counties with a high vote share for the green party are particularly affected by these biases.
Q42|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
Q42|Food for fuel: The effect of the US biofuel mandate on poverty in India|More than 40% of US grain is used for energy due to the Renewable Fuel Mandate (RFS). There are no studies of the global distributional consequences of this purely domestic policy. Using micro‐level survey data, we trace the effect of the RFS on world food prices and their impact on household level consumption and wage incomes in India. We first develop a partial equilibrium model to estimate the effect of the RFS on the price of selected food commodities—rice, wheat, corn, sugar, and meat and dairy, which together provide almost 70% of Indian food calories. Our model predicts that world prices for these commodities rise by 8–16% due to the RFS. We estimate the price pass‐through to domestic Indian prices and the effect of the price shock on household welfare through consumption and wage incomes. Poor rural households suffer significant welfare losses due to higher prices of consumption goods, which are regressive. However, they benefit from a rise in wage incomes, mainly because most of them are employed in agriculture. Urban households also bear the higher cost of food, but do not see a concomitant rise in wages because only a small fraction of them work in food‐related industries. Welfare losses are greater among urban households. However, more poor people in India live in villages, so rural poverty impacts are larger in magnitude. We estimate that the mandate leads to about 25 million new poor: 21 million in rural and 4 million in the urban population.
Q42|Apports naturels en eau dans les barrages-réservoirs et règle de Hotelling|L’article analyse la gestion annuelle des barrages hydroélectriques quand les apports naturels en eau suivent des cycles prévisibles. Nous montrons que dans ce cadre la règle de Hotelling s’applique par intermittence. En effet, d`es lors qu’un stock est constitué sans que les contraintes de capacité soient liantes, il est possible de réaliser des arbitrages intertemporels semblables à ceux de la gestion d’une ressource non-renouvelable, donc la valeur de l’eau croît au taux de l’intérêt. En revanche, quand la ressource en eau est si rare qu’on ne peut compter que sur les apports instantanés ou, au contraire, trop abondante compte tenu des capacités du réservoir de sorte qu’il faut réaliser des lâchures improductives, la règle d’arbitrage de Hotelling ne s’applique plus. Nous expliquons aussi l’importance des contraintes de turbinage qui, quand elles sont liantes, donnent à l'électricité produite une valeur supérieure `à celle de l’eau qui sert à la produire.
Q42|Latent Volatility Granger Causality and Spillovers in Renewable Energy and Crude Oil ETFs|The purpose of the paper is to examine latent volatility Granger causality for four renewable energy Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and crude oil ETF (USO), namely solar (TAN), wind (FAN), water (PIO), and nuclear (NLR). Data on the renewable energy and crude oil ETFs are from 18 June 2008 to 20 March 2017. From the underlying stochastic process of a vector random coefficient autoregressive (VRCAR) process for the shocks of returns, we derive Latent Volatility Granger causality from the Diagonal BEKK multivariate conditional volatility model. We follow Chang et al. (2015)’s definition of the co-volatility spillovers of shocks, which calculate the delayed effect of a returns shock in one asset on the subsequent volatility or co-volatility in another asset, and extend the effects of the co-volatility spillovers of shocks to the effects of the co-volatility spillovers of squared shocks. The empirical results show there are significant positive latent volatility Granger causality relationships between solar (TAN), wind (FAN), nuclear (NLR), and crude oil (USO) ETFs, specifically significant volatility spillovers of shocks from solar ETF on the subsequent wind ETF co-volatility with solar ETF, and wind ETF on the subsequent solar ETF co-volatility with wind ETF. Interestingly, there are significant volatility spillovers of squared shocks for the renewable energy ETFs, but not with crude oil ETFs
Q42|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
Q42|Harnessing Electricity Retail Tariffs to Support Climate Change Policy|Legacy electricity retail tariffs are ill-adapted to future electricity systems and markets, particularly with regard to accommodating the multi-faceted shift toward decarbonisation. We examine how retail tariffs need to be reformed to not only meet the future revenue requirements of energy-suppliers and networks but also to help achieve the environmental objectives of the energy transition. While existing literature has explored the link between retail tariff structure design, wholesale markets and/or network cost recovery, there is less recognition of the impact of tariff structure design on environmental objectives. This paper reviews the demand responsiveness of household customers to electricity prices and implications of retail tariff structure and design for the policy targets of CO2 emissions, energy efficiency, and renewable electricity generation, in addition to electricity system. A review of the literature provides a theoretical basis for price elasticity of demand and electricity retail tariff design, and we explore the environmental implications for future retail tariff design options via examples of various tariff structures in the EU and US. The research links the topics of emissions mitigation policy and market design, and should add empirical insights to the body of academic literature on future electricity markets. It should also be of interest to policy makers wishing to consider retail tariff structures that promote decarbonisation of the electricity system through multiple objectives of improved energy efficiency and increased shares of renewable electricity within future electricity markets.
Q42|Harnessing electricity retail tariffs to support climate change policy|Legacy electricity retail tariffs are ill-adapted to future electricity systems and markets, particularly with regard to accommodating the multi-faceted shift toward decarbonisation. We examine how retail tariffs need to be reformed to not only meet the future revenue requirements of energy-suppliers and networks but also to help achieve the environmental objectives of the energy transition. While existing literature has explored the link between retail tariff structure design, wholesale markets and/or network cost recovery, there is less recognition of the impact of tariff structure design on environmental objectives. This paper reviews the demand responsiveness of household customers to electricity prices and implications of retail tariff structure and design for the policy targets of CO2 emissions, energy efficiency, and renewable electricity generation, in addition to electricity system. A review of the literature provides a theoretical basis for price elasticity of demand and electricity retail tariff design, and we explore the environmental implications for future retail tariff design options via examples of various tariff structures in the EU and US. The research links the topics of emissions mitigation policy and market design, and should add empirical insights to the body of academic literature on future electricity markets. It should also be of interest to policy makers wishing to consider retail tariff structures that promote decarbonisation of the electricity system through multiple objectives of improved energy efficiency and increased shares of renewable electricity within future electricity markets.
Q42|Towards Renewable Electricity in Europe: An Empirical Analysis of the Determinants of Renewable Electricity Development in the European Union|The twenty-first century must see a decarbonisation of electricity production to mitigate the flow of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. This paper presents an econometric analysis of the factors that motivate the use of renewable energy in electricity production using panel data from EU Member States during the period 2000-2015. The research extends the literature in this area in several ways. Firstly, the econometric analysis is focused on the electricity sector rather than on the overall primary energy supply, which also includes the diverse heating and transport sectors. In addition, an alternative public policy variable is proposed using the tax and levy component of electricity bills. Furthermore, an alternative econometric approach is employed using a hybrid mixed effects estimator. The results of this analysis are found to be broadly as expected, with mixed fossil fuel price effects; electricity grid interconnection and higher levels of greenhouse gas emissions both motivate the development of renewable electricity. Policy implications are that policy support for fossil fuels should be ceased; electricity grid interconnections should be developed between countries; and furthermore, levies on retail electricity prices to fund RE support schemes are effective at promoting renewable electricity.
Q42|Interventions to Mitigate Indoor Air Pollution: A Cost-Benefit Analysis|Globally, around three billion people depend upon solid fuels such as firewood, dry animal dung, crop residues, or coal, and use traditional stoves for cooking and heating purposes. This solid fuel combustion causes indoor air pollution (IAP) and severely impairs health and the environment, especially in developing countries like Pakistan. A number of alternative household energy strategies can be adopted to mitigate IAP, such as using liquid petroleum gas (LPG), natural gas, biogas, electric stoves, or improved cook stoves (ICS). In this study, we estimate the benefit-cost ratio, net present value, and internal rate of return of these interventions over a ten-year period in Pakistan. Annual costs included both fixed and operating costs, whereas benefits covered health, productivity gains, time savings, and fuel savings. We found that LPG has the highest benefit-cost ratio of 3.68, and ICS had the lowest benefit-cost ratio (0.58). Natural gas, electric stoves, and biogas had benefit-cost ratios of 2.87, 2.22, and 1.39 respectively. To maximize the return on investment in cleaner burning technology, the government of Pakistan should consider encouraging the adoption of LPG, piped natural gas, and electric stoves as a means to reduce IAP.
Q42|The Effects of German Wind and Solar Electricity on French Spot Price Volatility: An Empirical Investigation| We examine the relationship between German wind and solar electricity and French spot price volatility. Using hourly data, we find that French imports from Germany driven by German wind and solar electricity sometimes decrease, sometimes increase the volatility of French spot prices. These two opposing effects depend on the shape of the French supply function and on the French demand. We, therefore, estimate different coefficients for imports depending on different demand levels. We acknowledge the endogeneity problem in identifying these effects and employ instrumental variable techniques to circumvent this problem. Our results show the urgent need for further coordination of national energy policies in order to reduce the potential for negative spill over effects of nationally driven energy policies in neighbouring countries as European electricity markets are becoming more integrated.
Q42|Sustainable transitions and complex socio-technical systems: renewable energy and the electricity grid in the USA, UK and Germany|Transitions management identifies broad national efforts that attempt to govern socio-technical change along more environmentally sustainable pathways. Although the complexity of such endeavours is generally acknowledged, it is not yet clear how governance practices work at an international level. This paper utilises the transitions management concept to compare three countries in their attempts to increase the adoption and use of renewable energy technologies. It notes that analysis at a micro-level needs to focus on the actions and requirements of particular user groups for a deeper elucidation of transition management processes. Furthermore, the complexity of socio-technical change processes implies that transitions management is a more useful concept when focused at the micro-level of change rather than at the macro-level of strategy formulation over the longer term.
Q42|Can preferential trade agreements enhance renewable electricity generation in emerging economies? A model-based policy analysis for Brazil and the European Union| Preferential trade agreements with climate-related provisions have been suggested as alternative to a New Market Mechanism due to its potential not only to achieve Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) in emerging economies but also to lead to more ambitious targets in the first UNFCCC global stocktake in 2023. The objective of this research is therefore to analyze the effectiveness and quantify the economic impacts of such a trade agreement between Brazil and the European Union that aims to support renewable electricity generation. Using a multi-regional computable general equilibrium model, we find that the environmental effectiveness of a preferential trade agreement targeting renewable electricity generation strongly depends on its design. In particular, preferential trade agreements require additional elements to effectively contribute to mitigation as the sole removal of import tariffs on renewable energy technology is quite ineffective in scaling up the share of wind, solar, and biomass in Brazil. In contrast, a preferential trade agreement triggering FDI flows towards renewable electricity generation is effective in increasing the share of renewables in the generation mix and in reducing CO2 emissions, while positively affecting the Brazilian economic performance. Finally, we compare the two previous approaches to a domestic energy policy: a combination of higher fossil fuel taxes and subsidies to renewable electricity generation. We find that although this domestic energy policy is more effective in mitigation terms than the FDI policy, economic performance is negatively affected in several sectors. When such economic costs are socially not acceptable, as it is likely in many emerging economies, properly designed preferential trade agreements could therefore be a suitable instrument for supporting the achievement of NDCs, and potentially increase their stringency for the next stock taking period.
Q42|Ökonomische Indikatoren des Energiesystems – Methode, Abgrenzung und Ergebnisse für den Zeitraum 2000–2016|Die Energiewende in Deutschland hat das Ziel, langfristig eine umweltverträgliche, ressourcenschonende und kostengünstige Energieversorgung zu gewährleisten. Um den Fortschritt dieser Transformation adäquat und zuverlässig beurteilen zu können, bedarf es geeigneter Indikatoren. Neben physischen Indikatoren zu Energieeinsatz und Emissionen werden auch Indikatoren benötigt, die die ökonomische Dimension der Transformation der Energiewirtschaft beschreiben. Die hier vorliegende Untersuchung ermittelt und dokumentiert relevante ökonomische Indikatoren. Da die Transformation des Energiesystems ein langfristiger Prozess ist, wird angestrebt, die Indikatoren in einer langen Zeitreihe seit dem Jahr 2000 bis zum aktuellen Rand vorzulegen. Bei genauerer Betrachtung, welche Wirtschaftsbereiche dem Energiesystem zuzurechnen sind, wird deutlich, dass eine Klärung und Abgrenzung erforderlich sind. Der Schwerpunkt dieser Untersuchung wird auf die Bereitstellung von Endenergie gelegt, es werden jedoch auch erste Ansätze zur Erfassung der Entwicklung von Maßnahmen zur Steigerung der Energieeffizienz und zu effizienten Verbrauchern vorgestellt. Der Report stellt dar, welche Daten in den relevanten ökonomischen Indikatorenbereichen vorliegen und welche Daten aus welchem Grund für die hier dokumentierten Indikatoren genutzt wurden. Bei der Auswahl der verwendeten Daten wird angestrebt, immer dann, wenn es methodisch vertretbar erscheint, vorliegende amtliche oder andere öffentlich verfügbare Daten zu nutzen. Wo dies nicht möglich oder sinnvoll erscheint, sind Methoden entwickelt worden, anhand derer die erforderlichen Indikatoren abgeleitet werden können. Die dabei angewendeten Vorgehensweisen und die jeweils getroffenen Annahmen werden ausführlich dargestellt. Die Untersuchung ist daher wie folgt aufgebaut. Zunächst wird die Beschäftigung in den verschiedenen Bereichen der Energiewirtschaft ausgeführt. Wie in allen Bereichen der Wirtschaftstätigkeit lösen diese Aktivitäten die Nachfrage nach weiteren Gütern aus und führen auch indirekt zu Beschäftigung in den vorgelagerten Wirtschaftszweigen. Daher sind die indirekten Effekte unabdingbar, um den gesamten ökonomischen Effekt der Energiewirtschaft abzuschätzen. Das folgende Kapitel geht ausführlich auf die Investitionstätigkeit in der Energiewirtschaft ein und stellt erstmals in der Literatur umfassend Investitionen in allen Bereichen zusammen. Anschließend wird der Bogen zurück zur Beschäftigung geschlagen. Hier wird die zur Bereitstellung der entsprechenden Güter notwendige Bruttoproduktion abgeleitet, auf deren Basis die Beschäftigungsermittlung fußt. Die hierzu notwendigen Überlegungen zum Außenhandel mit den jeweiligen Gütern werden ebenfalls angestellt. Der Bericht schließt mit verschiedenen konzeptionellen Ansätzen in der Literatur zum Thema Energieeffizienz und gibt Beispiele für eine entsprechende Umsetzung.
Q42|Erneuerbar beschäftigt in den Bundesländern – Bericht zur aktualisierten Abschätzung der Bruttobeschäftigung 2016 in den Bundesländern|Der Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien (EE) ist von einem umfangreichen Monitoringprozess begleitet, bei dem jährlich technisch-ökonomische Daten ermittelt, aufbereitet und veröffentlicht werden. Die Berichterstattung dient dem Aufzeigen von Fortschritten wie Fehlstellen, welche bei der Zielerreichung wichtige Korrekturen oder Verstärkungen ermöglichen. Seit dem Jahr 2006 ist die Ermittlung der mit dem EE-Ausbau verbundenen Beschäftigung Teil des Monitorings. Ausgangspunkt der Berechnungen sind die Investitionen in erneuerbare Energien des jeweiligen Jahres. Der Ausbau und der Betrieb von EE-Anlagen löst zusätzliche Nachfrage nach Anlagen und nach Leistungen für den Betrieb und die Wartung von Anlagen aus. Durch die zusätzliche Nachfrage wird zunächst die direkte Beschäftigung für die Produktion und die Bereitstellung von Biomasse sowie die direkte Beschäftigung in Betrieb und Wartung der Anlagen benötigt. Über eine Input-Output-Analyse werden aus der Produktion von Vorleistungen indirekt Beschäftigte abgeleitet. Die Strukturinformationen der EE-Branchen wurden in einer Reihe von Unternehmensbefragungen (2005, 2007, 2012) erhoben und seither fortgeschrieben. Seit dem Beschluss der Bundesregierung zum Energiekonzept (2010), spätestens aber seit den Beschlüssen zur Energiewende im Jahr 2011 umfasst der Monitoringprozess alle Energiewendebereiche und enthält die komplette Energiewirtschaft und die Energieeffizienz. So hat die jüngste Veröffentlichung von O’Sullivan et al. (2018) die Beschäftigung durch die Energiewende insgesamt im Blick. Sie wurde erstmals um eine Zeitreihe ergänzt, welche die Entwicklung der Bruttobeschäftigung durch erneuerbare Energien basierend auf einer konsolidierten Zeitreihe zum Ausbau, dem Bestand und den jährlichen Investitionen konsistent abschätzt. Die Bruttobeschäftigung durch den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien in Deutschland dient im Folgenden als Ausgangspunkt für die Berechnung der EE-Beschäftigung in den Bundesländern. Dazu wird zunächst kurz auf die Veröffentlichungsreihe zur regionalen Abschätzung eingegangen. Kapitel 2 gibt einen Überblick über die Verteilung der Bruttobeschäftigung in den Bundesländern insgesamt und beleuchtet unterschiedliche Strukturen. Zusätzlich werden der Status und die Entwicklung für drei Energieträger gesondert dargestellt. Kapitel 3 geht auf die einzelnen Entwicklungen in den Bundesländern ein und Kapitel 4 fasst anhand der Gesamtdynamik zusammen und schließt mit einem zusammenfassenden Fazit.
Q42|Variable Pricing and the Cost of Renewable Energy|On a levelized-cost basis, solar and wind power generation are now competitive with fossil fuels. But supply of these renewable resources is variable and intermittent, unlike traditional power plants. As a result, the cost of using flat retail pricing instead of dynamic, marginal-cost pricing—long advocated by economists—will grow. We evaluate the potential gains from dynamic pricing in high-renewable systems using a novel model of power supply and demand in Hawai’i. The model breaks new ground in integrating investment in generation and storage capacity with chronological operation of the system, including an account of reserves, a demand system with different interhour elasticities for different uses, and substitution between power and other goods and services. The model is open source and fully adaptable to other settings. Consistent with earlier studies, we find that dynamic pricing provides little social benefit in fossil-fuel-dominated power systems, only 2.6 to 4.6 percent of baseline annual expenditure. But dynamic pricing leads to a much greater social benefit of 8.5 to 23.4 percent in a 100 percent renewable power system with otherwise similar assumptions. High renewable systems, including 100 percent renewable, are remarkably affordable. The welfare maximizing (unconstrained) generation portfolio under the utility’s projected 2045 technology and pessimistic interhour demand flexibility uses 79 percent renewable energy, without even accounting for pollution externalities. If overall demand for electricity is more elastic than our baseline (0.1), renewable energy is even cheaper and variable pricing can improve welfare by as much as 47 percent of baseline expenditure.
Q42|Household fuel use in developing countries: Review of theory and evidence|Owing to recent concerns about the negative externalities of traditional fuel use on the environment and health, the issue of the household fuel transition in developing countries, from dirty fuels towards clean fuels, is receiving growing research attention. This paper provides an up-to-date survey of the economic literature on household fuel use in these countries. We first present the conceptual and theoretical frameworks. Then we discuss the empirical results that show the wide range of factors that drive the household fuel transition and can be understood better by linking them with theory.
Q42|The prosumers and the grid|Abstract Prosumers are households that are both producers and consumers of electricity. A prosumer has a grid-connected decentralized production unit and makes two types of exchanges with the grid: energy imports when the local production is insufficient to match the local consumption and energy exports when local production exceeds it. There exists two systems to measure the exchanges: a net metering system that uses a single meter to measure the balance between exports and imports and a net purchasing system that uses two meters to measure separately power exports and imports. Both systems are currently used for residential consumption. We build a model to compare the two metering systems. Under net metering, the price of exports paid to prosumers is implicitly set at the price of the electricity that they import. We show that net metering leads to (1) too many prosumers, (2) a decrease in the bills of prosumers, compensated via a higher bill for traditional consumers, and (3) a lack of incentives to synchronize local production and consumption.
Q42|How shifting investment towards low-carbon sectors impacts employment: Three determinants under scrutiny|The threat of climate change requires redirecting investment towards low-carbon sectors, and this shift generates heated debates about its impact on employment. Many studies exist, most of which use CGE or Input-Output (IO) models. However, the economic mechanisms at play remain unclear. This paper disentangles the channels of job creation and studies to what extent the results of simpler IO models diverge from CGE results.
Q42|Uncertainty management and the dynamic adjustment of deep decarbonization pathways| Contrary to ‘static’ pathways that are defined once for all, this article deals with the need for policy makers to adopt a dynamic adaptive policy pathway for managing decarbonization over the period of implementation. When choosing a pathway as the most desirable option, it is important to keep in mind that each decarbonization option relies on the implementation of specific policies and instruments. Given structural, effectiveness, and timing uncertainties specific to each policy option, they may fail in delivering the expected outcomes in time. The possibility of diverging from an initial decarbonization trajectory to another one without incurring excessive costs should therefore be a strategic element in the design of an appropriate decarbonization strategy. The article relies on initial experiences in France and Germany on decarbonization planning and implementation to define elements for managing dynamic adjustment issues. Such an adaptive pathway strategy should combine long-lived incentives, like a pre-announced escalating carbon price, to form consistent expectations, as well as adaptive policies to improve overall robustness and resilience. We sketch key elements of a monitoring process based on an ex ante definition of leading indicators that should be assessed regularly and combined with signposts and trigger values at the subsector level. Policy relevance These research questions are of special interest and urgency following the Paris Agreement in 2015. It calls on all countries to monitor the implementation of their national contributions and review their ambition regularly. The regular revision of decarbonization pathways constitute a great research opportunity to gather experiences on decarbonization pathway implementation and on dynamic management issues to progress towards an operational dynamic adaptive policy pathway mechanism.
Q42|Impacts of decentralised power generation on distribution networks: a statistical typology of European countries|The development of decentralised sources of power produced out of renewable energies has been triggering far-reaching consequences for DSOs over the past decade. Our paper benchmarks across more than 20 European countries the impact of the development of renewables on the physical characteristics of power distribution networks and on their investments. It builds quantitative indicators about the dynamics of installed capacity of and generation from renewable sources of electricity, electric independence, quality of electric distribution, the amount of smart grids investments, DSOs capital expenditures, the length of the distribution networks, overall costs of power networks paid by private agents, and electric losses, all in relation with the development of decentralised generation. The heterogeneity of these indicators across Europe appears to be wide notably because of physical constraints, historic legacies or policy and regulatory choices. A cluster analysis allows for deriving 5 groups of countries that display statistically homogenous characteristics. Our results may provide decision makers and regulators with a tool helping them to concentrate on the main issues specific to their countries as compared to the European median, and to look for possible solutions in the experience of other clusters which are shown to perform better for some indicators.
Q42|Antidumping and Feed-In Tariffs as Good Buddies? Modeling the EU-China Solar Panel Dispute|The paper analyzes the interactions between trade and renewable energy policies based on the EU-China solar panel dispute which is the most significant antidumping (AD) complaint in Europe. We build a price competition duopoly model with differentiated products and intra-industry trade in photovoltaic (PV) equipment. We show that an optimal antidumping duty always increases with the feed-in tariff (FIT) program set in the home country. An appropriate antidumping duty - nullifying the dumping margin - decreases with the FIT program. We show that optimal FIT increases with the AD duty. Therefore, trade and renewable energy optimal policies may complement one another. Lastly, we introduce R&D activities in the PV sector, and international spillovers. We show that R&D makes the optimal FIT lower and increases the dumping margin. These effects are reinforced by technological spillovers.
Q42|Is Shale Gas a Good Bridge to Renewables? An Application to Europe|Abstract This paper explores whether climate policy justifies developing more shale gas and addresses the question of a potential arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy. We construct a Hotelling-like model where electricity may be produced by three perfectly substitutable sources: an abundant dirty resource (coal), a non-renewable less polluting resource (shale gas), and an abundant clean resource (solar). The resources differ by their carbon contents and their unit costs. Shale gas extraction’s technology (fracking) generates local damages. Fixed costs must be paid to develop shale gas and to deploy the clean resource on a large scale. Climate policy takes the form of a carbon budget. We show that, at the optimum, a more stringent climate policy does not always go together with an increase of the quantity of shale gas extracted, and that banning shale gas extraction most often leads to bring forward the development of the clean resource, but not always. We calibrate the model for Europe in order to determine whether shale gas should be extracted and in which amount, and to evaluate the effects of a moratorium on shale gas use.
Q42|Les « upgradings stratégiques » des firmes subordonnées dans les CGV : le cas des éleveurs investissant dans des unités de méthanisation|?This article considers the analysis of upgrading strategies, focusing at the level of subordinate firms themselves, with a more classical study at the GVC level. This approach develops the concept of ?strategic upgrading,? studies the institutional environment of subordinate firms, and draws on concepts from industrial economics, such as differentiation, diversification, and specialization, in order to understand these firms? strategies. It thus reexamines the category of inter-chain upgrading, i.e., the improvement of the position of actors of a GVC by integrating a new GVC. We confront this proposal with a territorialized case study on the development of biogas production by farmers in the Ardennes. We observe that these farmers are part of the emerging GVC of biomass energy based on their experience as ?captive? actors in the agro-industrial GVC. In particular, they have sized their biogas production units to be autonomous regarding agro-industry. This new activity also has feedback effects on their positioning in the agro-industrial GVC. ? ?JEL classification: ? ?L22, L23, Q13, Q16, Q42.?
Q42|Cross subsidies across network users: renewable self-consumption|The deployment of renewable energies relies upon incentive policies to make their use profitable for owner. However, their development needs adjustments of network to manage intermittency and additional energy fed into the grid. Moreover, the Public Service Obligation Tariffs (PSOT) are increasing to fund policies that support renewable energy deployment. Therefore, some decisions are taken to promote self-consumption by owners of renewable energy power plants, as photovoltaic prosumers. This behavior is encouraged by payment exemptions of PSOT, special tariffs dedicated to remunerate each self-consumed energy unit or savings on the variable part of the network tariff. Thus, some cross-subsidies appear between self-consumers and other users of the network to compensate all these previous self-consumers’ gains. We show that these cross-subsidies occur but they strongly rely on self-consumption rate and on renewable energy share in the total produced or consumed energy. So, currently, the levels of cross-subsidies are not significant for consumers. We also show that regulator could fund these cross-subsidies increasing the fixed part of the network tariff for prosumers.
Q42|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while commandand-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q42|Addressing the climate problem: Choice between allowances, feed-in tariffs and taxes|Instruments chosen to pursue climate related targets are not always efficient. In this paper we consider an economy with three climate related targets for its electricity generation: a given share of “green” electricity, a given expansion of “green” electricity, and a given reduction of “black” (fossil based) electricity. At its disposal the country has three instruments: an allowance system (tradable green certificates), a subsidy system (feed-in tariffs) and a Pigouvian fossil tax. Each of these instruments may be used to attain any of the given targets. Within the setting of the model it is verified that each kind of the target has only a single efficient instrument under certainty, and that there is a deadweight loss of using other instruments to achieve the target. Similarly, there is also an analysis of instrument choice when several targets are to be attained at the same time. The paper also discusses the case of simultaneous targets as well as the relevance of the various targets.
Q42|Passive Learning and Incentivized Communication: A Randomized Controlled Trial in India|In order to understand the extent of the information barrier to adoption of a household technology, we designed a randomized controlled trial on willingness to pay (WTP) for solar lanterns in India. We gave high quality solar lanterns to randomly selected `seed' households in a non-electrified region of the state of Uttar Pradesh. Three friends of the seed household were randomly assigned to one of the following three groups: control, passive learning and incentivized communication. We elicit WTP from the control group when the seed receives the solar lantern. We elicit WTP from the friends in the passive learning and incentivized communication groups thirty days after the seed receives the solar lantern. We show that passive learning increases WTP by 90% and incentivized communication by 145% relative to the control group. We also show that learning from others is the mechanism that drives the observed WTP by peers.
Q42|Economics and Social Costs of Hydroelectric Power|This paper offers a non-technical overview of the issues involved when applying cost-benefit analysis (CBA) to hydropower, both in terms of new installations and changing existing regulatory structures. Our focus is on the conceptual and empirical problems of applying CBA to provide decision support in such cases. A large body of literature now exists on the social net values of generating electricity from moving water. The studies focusing values related to the ecological system include, but are not limited to, effects on climate, aesthetics, landscape, recreation and wildlife. Taken together, they confirm the view that the public invariably seems to place significant values on the integrity of the ecological system. It does, however, not seem possible to draw general conclusions from the literature on whether or not a given (dis)investment will pass a cost-benefit test; the end-result depends entirely on the specifics.
Q42|Estimating Willingness to Pay for E85 in the United States Using an Intercept Survey of Flex Motorists|Abstract: Compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) in United States will require price incentives for a substantial number of motorists with flex-fuel vehicles to switch to high ethanol-gasoline blends. Existing estimates of motoristsâ€™ willingness to pay for high-ethanol blends use data from Brazil, data generated when prices greatly favored low-ethanol blends, or stated preference data collected from mail and online surveys. We conducted an intercept survey of flex motorists as they refueled in five US states. We overcome the problem caused by sample prices favoring low-ethanol blends by augmenting revealed preference data with stated preference data. A sample-selection problem arises because motorists with high willingness to pay seek out the relatively few stations that sell high-ethanol blends. We use responses from two questions to inform sample selection. We find the average US motorist requires a substantial discount to switch to high ethanol blends beyond the price that equates the cost per mile of driving.
Q42|A review of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland|In recent years offshore wind has become one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy technology worldwide. Nevertheless, there are still several markets with large potential for deployment. In this paper we assess the offshore wind innovation system in Poland. We apply the Technological Innovation System approach. This procedure has been widely used to describe the offshore wind innovation system in Europe. However, the existing literature concerned European countries located at the technological frontier, while in this publication we examine this issue in a follower country, which is still waiting to deploy its first offshore wind installation. The upcoming transition of the Polish energy system, resulting from depletion of current coal resources and EU climate policy goals, makes Poland one of the most promising markets for renewable technologies, and the geographical location puts Poland in position of the main actor in kick-starting the offshore wind market on the Baltic Sea. However, in our study we identify a number of challenges for offshore wind technology deployment in Poland. Some of these challenges include the unpredictable public policies, limited grid infrastructure, rather poor quality of research provided by scientific organisations and weak interactions between science and business. To address these issues, we propose a set of policy instruments, which, we believe, will significantly contribute to the development of offshore wind technology in Poland.
Q42|Can climate mitigation help the poor? Measuring impacts of the CDM in rural China|This study examines whether investment in climate change mitigation contributes to poverty alleviation. We investigate the impacts of the renewable energy-based clean development mechanism (RE-CDM) projects on rural communities in China. The impacts of RE-CDM projects are estimated by combining propensity score matching with the difference-in-differences approach. We found that the biomass-based CDM projects significantly contribute to income improvement and employment generation in rural communities in China. Our estimation results also reveal that wind energy-based CDM projects have the potential to increase income and the share of labor force in the primary industry in rural areas. These results suggest different channels through which renewable energy sources affect income.
Q42|Does a Small Difference Make a Difference? Impact of Feed-in Tariff on Renewable Power Generation in China|This study investigates the effectiveness of regionally differentiated feed-in tariffs (FIT) for the development of renewable energy in China. By using a spatial regression discontinuity design, we estimate the impacts of regionally differentiated FITs on the outcome indicators of wind and solar power generation, such as utilization rate, installed capacity, power generation, and hours of operation. Our findings show that FIT implementation plays a role in promoting renewable energy development in resourcepoor regions. A small difference in the tariff rate leads to statistically significant differences in outcome indicators among regions. Our results suggest that regionally differentiated FITs might help mitigate the overproduction of wind electricity in regions with abundant wind resources but low electricity demand.
Q42|Heterogeneous preferences and the individual change to alternative electricity contracts|Based on data from a large-scale computer-based survey among more than 3700 German citizens, this paper empirically disentangles the determinants of the general change of electricity contracts and the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our econometric analysis reveals a strong relevance of behavioral factors and individual values and norms. For example, patience (which was measured by an incentivized experiment included in the survey) has a significantly positive effect on both general switches to alternative electricity contracts and specific switches to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, trust and (less robust) social preferences (also measured by an incentivized experiment) have additional significantly positive effects on the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our estimation results also imply an important role of political identification, i.e. an ecological policy orientation is strongly significantly positively correlated with the change to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, several household specific factors like relocation decisions as well as socio-demographic and socio-economic variables like household income are also relevant. The empirical analysis thus provides new explanation patterns for the phenomenon that relatively few households regularly change their electricity contracts and specifically switch to green electricity contracts, although they have high stated preferences for such changes. Our insights suggest several directions for policy and electricity suppliers to increase these switching rates. For example, the high importance of trust for the change to green electricity contracts suggests transparency initiatives of electricity suppliers to decrease concerns against renewable energies.
Q42|Subsidizing Renewable Energy: Higher Welfare by lower depreciation costs for fossil power plants?|There is a broad agreement that renewable energy sources (RES) will play an important role to abate CO2 emissions but there is a contentious debate about the economic sense to promote RES via subsidies. Many static analyses conclude that subsidizing RES ties up capital which could have been used more efficiently by other reduction strategies with lower marginal abatement costs (MAC). Dynamic models, in contrast, emphasize learning effects which lead to lower MAC of RES. In particular a start-up funding to induce an early market entry of RES may be advantageous to benefit from reduced MAC. To our knowledge there has been no attention so far to the effects of renewables’ promotion to the necessary shut down of power plants based on fossil energy sources (FES). With respect to the achievement of a certain long-term reduction objective an early market entry of RES allows a longer transition from FES to RES. This also means more time to shut down fossil-based power plants which can reduce respective depreciation costs. We use an endogenous growth model to focus on the trade off between the described decrease of depreciation costs and the capital tie-up of a subsidization of RES. We find that subsidizing RES can indeed lead to a higher welfare solely because of reduced depreciation costs. We conclude that an optimal strategy to reduce emissions should consider both the increase of renewable and the decrease of fossil electricity generation.
Q42|Decoupling the EU ETS from subsidized renewables and other demand side effects Lessons from the impact of the EU ETS on CO2 emissions in the German electricity sector|This paper analyzes the impact of the EU ETS on CO2 reduction in the German electricity sector. We find an ETS-induced emission abatement which is not exceeding 6 % of total emissions with a maximum already in 2010. Thereafter the ETS has not induced additional reductions. This outcome is sub-optimal. It corresponds to the recent debate about sub-optimal performance of the EU ETS caused by excessive allowances. Following up on this we develop a unilateral flexible cap to eliminate demand side effects which lead to excessive allowances. The unilateral flexible cap is based on emission intensities. Using the works of Newell and Pizer (2008); Sue Wing et al. (2009) we prove in a first step that an intensity-based emission cap is advantageous in the German electricity sector when compared to an absolute cap. An ex-post analysis shows that the amount of excessive allowances resulting from the economic crisis during the second trading period could have been significantly lowered with a unilateral flexible cap. This approach also decouples the EU ETS from a simultaneous promotion of renewable energy.
Q42|Reconciling Emissions Trading and the Promotion of Renewable Energy|The EU emissions trading system (ETS) and the promotion of renewable energy are overlapping regulations. Although the resulting early development of renewables is associated with several advantages such an overlap may violate the path of optimal abatement. Subsidies may cause a too high share of renewables in electricity generation. This results in additional expenses and efficiency losses. We develop a control mechanism serving as thumb rule to limit additional expenses. Under optimal implementation the rule signicantly restricts additional expenses to a maximum of about 4 % of total abatement costs in worst case. This result holds for marginal abatement costs (MAC) approximated by any conical combination of weak convex power functions. This means high exibility of MAC leading to high validity of the results. Consequences of a non-optimal implementation of the mechanism are examined as well. An empirical application to German data shows that the promotion of renewable energy has not yet violated the path of optimal abatement. However, data is restricted because the ETS has not induced an additional emission reduction since 2010.
Q42|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. A multivariate co-integration analysis|This paper applied the ARDL bounds test approach and the VECM test technique to examine the long run relationship and direction of causality between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. Quarterly time series data was employed in this study covering a period between 1990 and 2014. Trade openness, capital and employment were included in the study to form a multivariate framework. The results established that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The VECM test technique confirmed a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. This implies that energy conservation policies may not harm the economic growth. The study, therefore, suggest that an appropriate and effective energy policy should be implemented in the long run.
Q42|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia
Q42|Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth in Turkey. An ARDL Bounds Testing Approach|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q42|The causal links between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q42|Energy efficiency, green technology and the pain of paying|It is well-known from the mental accounting literature that consumers would rather pay up-front for a luxury good like a vacation, but pay later for a durable good like a dishwasher. This occurs because the hedonic benefits and monetary costs enter differently in the mental accounts. But how does the mental accounting process change if the durable good saves money over time, as with an energy efficiency upgrade, or signals wealth and ``green status'', like a rooftop solar panel or an electric car? In this paper, we derive a mental accounting model of energy efficient and green durable investment that incorporates the consumer heterogeneity in the psychological ``pain of paying''. The model predicts that pain of paying attenuates the willingness to pay for status signaling and environmental protection, but increases the willingness to pay more up front in order to reduce long run energy bills. Consumers with a high pain of paying may therefore act as if they have a low discount rate when they are more accurately described as being conflicted about their intertemporal preferences. We test these predictions using a survey-based discrete choice experiment with solar and energy efficient homes, in which we measured individual subjects' susceptibility to pain of paying.
Q42|Investment versus Output Subsidies: Implications of Alternative Incentives for Wind Energy|This paper examines the choice between subsidizing investment or output to promote socially desirable production. We exploit a natural experiment in which wind farm developers could choose an investment or output subsidy to estimate the impact of these instruments on productivity. Using regression discontinuity and matching estimators, we find that wind farms claiming the investment subsidy produced 10 to 11 percent less power than wind farms claiming the output subsidy, and that this effect reflects subsidy incentives rather than selection. The introduction of investment subsidies caused the Federal government to spend 12 percent more per unit of output from wind farms.
Q42|Variable Pricing and the Cost of Renewable Energy|On a levelized-cost basis, solar and wind power generation are now competitive with fossil fuels, and still falling. But supply of these renewable resources is variable and intermittent, unlike traditional power plants. As a result, the cost of using flat retail pricing instead of dynamic, marginal-cost pricing--long advocated by economists--will grow. We evaluate the potential gains from dynamic pricing in high-renewable systems using a novel model of power supply and demand in Hawai'i. The model breaks new ground in integrating investment in generation and storage capacity with chronological operation of the system, including an account of reserves, a demand system with different interhour elasticities for different uses, and substitution between power and other goods and services. The model is open source and fully adaptable to other settings. Consistent with earlier studies, we find that dynamic pricing provides little social benefit in fossil-fuel-dominated power systems, only 2.6 to 4.6 percent of baseline annual expenditure. But dynamic pricing leads to a much greater social benefit of 8.5 to 23.4 percent in a 100 percent renewable power system with otherwise similar assumptions. High renewable systems, including 100 percent renewable, are remarkably affordable. The welfare maximizing (unconstrained) generation portfolio under the utility's projected 2045 technology and pessimistic interhour demand flexibility uses 79 percent renewable energy, without even accounting for pollution externalities. If overall demand for electricity is more elastic than our baseline (0.1), renewable energy is even cheaper and variable pricing can improve welfare by as much as 47 percent of baseline expenditure.
Q42|Setting with the Sun: The Impacts of Renewable Energy on Wholesale Power Markets|Policies supporting investment in renewable electricity have been a cornerstone of climate policy in many parts of the world. While previous empirical work explores the economic and environmental impacts of renewable production, the focus has exclusively been on the short-run impacts of expanding renewable supply. In this paper, we shed light on the longer run impacts of renewable expansions. Focusing on the California electricity market, we estimate how wholesale electricity prices have responded to a dramatic increase in utility-scale solar capacity. While a substantial decline in daily average prices can be attributed to the solar capacity expansion, this average price impact masks a substantial decrease in mid-day prices combined with an increase in shoulder hour prices. These results imply that short-term power markets are responding to the renewable expansion in a fashion that could sustain more flexible conventional generation, while seriously undermining the economic viability of traditional baseload generation technologies.
Q42|The Evidence from California on the Economic Impact of Inefficient Distribution Network Pricing|Charging full requirements customers for distribution network services using the traditional cents per kilowatt-hour (KWh) price creates economic incentives for consumers to invest in distributed generation technologies, such as rooftop solar photovoltaics, despite the fact that marginal cost of grid-supplied electricity is lower. This paper first assesses the economic efficiency properties of this approach to transmission and distribution network pricing and whether current approach to distribution network pricing implies that full-requirement customers cross-subsidize distributed solar customers. Using data on quarterly residential distribution network prices and distributed solar installations from California’s three largest investor-owned utilities I find that larger amounts of distributed solar capacity and more geographically concentrated solar capacity predict higher distribution network prices and average distribution network costs. This result continues to hold even after controlling for average distribution network costs for the utility, Using these econometric model estimates, I find that 2/3 of the increase in residential distribution network prices for each of the three utilities between 2003 and 2016 can attributed to the growth distributed solar capacity. The paper then investigates the extent of the legal obligation that distributed solar generation customers have to pay for sunk costs of investments in the transmission and distribution networks. The paper closes with a description of an alternative approach to distribution network pricing that is likely to increase the economic signals for efficient electricity consumption and the incentive for cost effective installation of distributed solar generation capacity.
Q42|The Price of Biodiesel RINs and Economic Fundamentals|The D4 RIN is the tradable compliance certificate for the biomass-based diesel mandate in the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). Understanding the price dynamics of the D4 RIN is important for understanding the RFS because its price sets a ceiling on the ethanol RIN (D6) and because some observers have suggested that RIN price fluctuations are too large to be explained by economic theory. We use option pricing theory to develop a model of the D4 RIN in terms of its economic fundamentals: the spread between the prices of biodiesel and petroleum diesel and the status of the biodiesel blenders’ tax credit. The resulting D4 fundamental price closely tracks actual D4 prices. We conclude that RIN price volatility arises because of the design of the RFS and intrinsic features of the US fuel supply system.
Q42|Technological Spillover Effects of State Renewable Energy Policy: Evidence from Patent Counts|We examine the effect of in-state and out-of-state renewable energy policies on wind energy patenting. Using a semiparametric fixed-effects Tobit model, we regress patent counts on a series of policy variables within a state and a spatially weighted average for each of these policies implemented in other states. We develop a lower bound for the marginal effects and find important differences across policy types. For renewable portfolio standards, overall demand matters. Policies in other states increase innovation, but own-state policies do not. In contrast, for financial incentives such as tax incentives and subsidy policies, own-state policies induce innovation.
Q42|Integrating renewables in mining: Review of business models and policy implications|Mining activities are energy-intensive and rely largely on fossil fuels to meet their energy demands. This exposes the mining sector to potential policy and regulatory risks, stemming from government efforts to shift the global economy to a low-emission development pathway, as envisaged by the Paris Agreement. At the same time, renewables have become an increasingly cost-competitive source of power generation. This has resulted in a business case for the adoption of solar and wind energy solutions in the mining sector, to reduce costs as well as carbon footprint of operations. The sector’s energy transition also presents an opportunity for resource-rich countries, including developing economies, to foster the synergistic development of higher value added domestic activities in the renewable energy sector. The shift of the mining industry to low-carbon energy has the potential to contribute to advancing the climate and sustainable development agenda, while also pursuing economic diversification objectives. However, the integration of new technologies into conventional power systems comes with risks and challenges. This paper aims to enhance the understanding of the key drivers for, and obstacles to, renewable energy integration in mining operations, based on a review of over 30 existing projects worldwide. The analysis identifies a need for an enabling policy environment, encompassing among others a competitive energy market structure and adequate energy infrastructure, to overcome current challenges and support the synergies between the development of the mining and renewable energy sectors.
Q42|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
Q42|Modeling the Relationship between Crude Oil and Agricultural Commodity Prices|The food-energy nexus has attracted great attention from policymakers, practitioners, and academia since the food price crisis during the 2007–2008 Global Financial Crisis (GFC), and new policies that aim to increase ethanol production. This paper incorporates aggregate demand and alternative oil shocks to investigate the causal relationship between agricultural products and oil markets. For the period January 2000–July 2018, monthly spot prices of 15 commodities are examined, including Brent crude oil, biofuel-related agricultural commodities, and other agricultural commodities. The sample is divided into three sub-periods, namely: (i) January 2000–July 2006, (ii) August 2006–April 2013, and (iii) May 2013–July 2018. The structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model, impulse response functions, and variance decomposition technique are used to examine how the shocks to agricultural markets contribute to the variance of crude oil prices. The empirical findings from the paper indicate that not every oil shock contributes the same to agricultural price fluctuations, and similarly for the effects of aggregate demand shocks on the agricultural market. These results show that the crude oil market plays a major role in explaining fluctuations in the prices and associated volatility of agricultural commodities.
Q42|Carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and economic growth: The historical decomposition evidence from G-7 countries|This paper investigates the relationship between carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and economic growth in the G-7 countries from a historical perspective. To this end, taking time varying interaction and business cycle into account, we use the historical decomposition method for the first time in the literature. Our results provide evidence that Canada, Italy, Japan and partly the United States need to sacrifice economic growth if they aim to reduce CO2 emissions by decreasing the fossil-based energy use. This situation is not valid since the early 1990s for France, throughout the analysis period for Germany and a few exceptions in all periods for the UK. Furthermore, empirical results provide evidence contrary to the EKC hypothesis for Canada, Germany, Japan, the UK and the US. We found BC-shaped and N-shaped curve for France and Italy, respectively. Although the EKC hypothesis is not valid for Germany and the UK, economic growth has no damaging effect on environmental quality. Also, this effect seems to be cyclical for the US. While the energy conservation theory is fully supported for Canada, it is strongly supported for France, Italy, Japan and the US with the exception of some periods. In addition to these findings, we find strong evidence to support the growth theory for all the G-7 countries.
Q42|Harnessing the Ring of Fire: Political economy of clean energy development finance on geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines|No abstract is available for this item.
Q42|A comparison of public preferences for different low-carbon energy technologies: Support for CCS, nuclear and wind energy in the United Kingdom|Using a representative national survey in the United Kingdom, we investigated public attitudes towards different low-carbon technologies (carbon capture and storage (CCS), wind and nuclear power) and the factors influencing public support. Overall, we found that respondents were far more likely to support wind energy as their preferred means of mitigating climate change. Older people and those of a higher social grade are more supportive of nuclear power, while age and social grade do not significantly affect support for wind energy. Supporters of the Conservative Party were more likely to oppose wind power. Neither attitudes towards climate change nor environmental attitudes were found to influence public support for wind power or nuclear. Trust in information from environmental groups was associated with greater support for wind energy but lower support for nuclear power. Perceived cost and objective knowledge significantly influenced public support for all three technology types, that is, higher perceived costs and the poorer objective knowledge lead to lower public support. However, self-assessed knowledge did not influence public support. Many factors, including most of the tested demographic factors, did not affect support for any of the three technologies.
Q42|Trust in Government and Effective Nuclear Safety Governance in Great Britain|No abstract is available for this item.
Q42|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.
Q42|China's Response to Nuclear Safety Post-Fukushima: Genuine or Rhetoric?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q42|The Economics of Renewable Energy Support|This paper uses theoretical and numerical economic equilibrium models to examine optimal renewable energy (RE) support policies for wind and solar resources in the presence of a carbon externality associated with the use of fossil fuels. We emphasize three main issues for policy design: the heterogeneity of intermittent natural resources, budget-neutral financing rules, and incentives for carbon mitigation. We find that differentiated subsidies for wind and solar, while being optimal, only yield negligible efficiency gains. Policies with smart financing of RE subsidies which either relax budget neutrality or use “polluter-pays-the-price” financing in the context of budget-neutral schemes can, however, approximate socially optimal outcomes. Our analysis suggests that optimally designed RE support policies do not necessarily have to be viewed as a costly second-best option when carbon pricing is unavailable.
Q42|Effectiveness of renewable energy subsidies in a CO2 intensive electricity system|Can subsidies to renewable energy effectively internalise CO2 costs in electricity production? Under current policy design it only matters that the replaced energy is dirty, but not how dirty it is. We use a modified peak-load pricing model, including variable renewable generators and the external costs of carbon, to examine the way in which a unit subsidy to variable renewables cannot restore first best optimum. In our model, electricity is generated using a combination of three technology types: two dispatchable, thermal, and CO2 emitting technologies, differing in their emission intensity, and a non-dispatchable renewable technology. We show that available wind capacity is never idle, and derive equations determining optimal installed capacities for all technologies. We then describe the mechanism by which a subsidy that does not discriminate between dirty energies fails to restore first best. Our analysis highlights the importance of a carbon price: even one below the social cost of carbon could have a corrective effect on the merit order of fossil fuels and improve the effectiveness of a subsidy.
Q42|From residential energy demand to fuel poverty: income-induced non-linearities in the reactions of households to energy price fluctuations|The residential energy demand is growing steadily and the trend is expected to continue in the near future. At the same time, under the impulse of economic crises and environmental and energy policies, many households have experienced reductions in real income and higher energy prices. In the residential sector, the number of fuel-poor households is thus expected to rise. A better understanding of the determinants of residential energy demand, in particular of the role of income and the sensitivity of households to changes in energy prices, is crucial in the context of recurrent debates on energy efficiency and fuel poverty. We propose a panel threshold regression (PTR) model to empirically test the sensitivity of French households to energy price fluctuations Ð as measured by the elasticity of residential heating energy prices Ð and to analyze the overlap between their income and fuel poverty profiles. The PTR model allows to test for the non-linear effect of income on the reactions of households to fluctuations in energy prices. Thus, it can identify specific regimes differing by their level of estimated price elasticities. Each regime represents an elasticity-homogeneous group of households. The number of these regimes is determined based on an endogenously PTR-fixed income threshold. Thereafter, we analyze the composition of the regimes (i.e. groups) to locate the dominant proportion of fuel-poor households and analyse their monetary poverty characteristics. Results show that, depending on the income level, we can identify two groups of households that react differently to residential energy price fluctuations and that fuel-poor households belong mostly to the group of households with the highest elasticity. By extension, results also show that income poverty does not necessarily mean fuel poverty. In terms of public policy, we suggest focusing on income heterogeneity by considering different groups of households separately when defining energy efficiency measures. We also suggest paying particular attention to targeting fuel-poor households by examining the overlap between fuel and income poverty.
Q42|Competitive advantage in the renewable energy industry: Evidence from a gravity model|Pioneering domestic environmental regulation may foster the creation of new eco-industries. These industries could benefit from a competitive advantage in the global market place. This article examines empirical evidence of the impact of domestic renewable energy policies on the export performance of renewable energy products (wind and solar PV). We use a gravity model of international trade with a balanced dataset of 49 (for wind) and 40 (for PV) countries covering the period 1995–2013. The stringency of renewable energy policies is proxied by installed capacities. Our econometric model shows evidence of competitive advantage positively correlated with domestic renewable energy policies, sustained in the wind industry but brief in the solar PV industry. We suggest that the reason for the dynamic difference lies in the underlying technologies involved in the two industries.
Q42|Photovoltaics and the Slovak Electricity Market|This paper analyses Slovak electricity market with a focus on photovoltaic energy. It evaluates the impact of the solar energy penetration into energy mix on spot prices, seeks evidence of the merit order effect in the Slovak electricity market and quantifies it based on hourly data. The multivariate regression analysis covers the period 2011-2016. The rather small merit order effect estimated by an OLS time series model leads to the small decrease of Slovak electricity wholesale prices. This spot price reduction attributable to the photovoltaics does not outweigh the costs of the support scheme borne by end users what implies a consumer loss.
Q42|The Relationship Between Fuel, Biofuel and Food Prices: Methods and Outcomes|We assess the fuel-food price linkage models of the structural and of the time series nature with the main attention devoted to the time series literature. We document shifting focus from a straightforward vector autoregressive and error-correction analysis of fuel-food commodity price level co-movement towards inclusion of biodiesel and ethanol prices directly into analysis, towards consideration of both price levels and price volatilities, and towards growing sophistication of econometric methodologies and integration of econometrics of price co-movement with theoretical considerations. The key insight of biofuels price transmission literature is that the price transmission is time and market specific, evolving with the development of biofuels policies and technologies. The most prominent relationships are coming from oil to agricultural commodities and then towards biofuels. While here are also studies not finding any strong connection between biofuels and their feedstock, the literature finding biofuels driving the prices of agricultural commodities up is negligible.
Q42|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
Q42|Are Renewables Profitable in 2030? A Comparison between Wind and Solar across Europe|The European Union has set ambitious targets for emission reduction and the penetration of renewable energy, including the electricity generation sector as one of the major emitters of CO2. After a period of subsidy-driven investments, the costs of renewables decreased strongly making investments more attractive. Since European countries differ strongly in terms of natural resources, we analyse the profitability of wind onshore and offshore and solar PV across Europe to determine where it is optimal to invest in the future and to understand which factors drive the profitability of the investments. We use a power systems model to simulate the whole European electricity market in 2030. Using the renewable revenues determined by the model, we calculate the internal rate of return to analyse how profitable each technology is in each country. We find that investments in the considered technologies are not homogeneously profitable across Europe. This suggests that cooperation between European countries can be expected to achieve the overall targets at lower costs than nationally-driven approaches. We also find that in many countries, wind onshore and solar PV are profitable by 2030 in absence of any financial support. Wind offshore does not seem to be profitable without financial support.
Q42|The Effect of the Conservation Reserve Program on Rural Economies: Deriving a Statistical Verdict from a Null Finding|"This article suggests two methods for deriving a statistical verdict from a null finding,allowing economists to more confidently conclude when “not significant"" can in fact be interpreted as “no substantive effect."" The proposed methodology can be extended to a variety of empirical contexts where size and power matter. The example used to demonstrate the method is the Economic Research Service's 2004 Report to Congress that was charged with statistically identifying any unintended negative employment consequences of the Conservation Reserve Program (the Program). The report failed to identify a statistically significant negative long-term effect of the Program on employment growth, but the authors correctly cautioned that the verdict of “no negative employment effect"" was only valid if the econometric test was statistically powerful. We replicate the 2004 analysis and use new methods of statistical inference to resolve the two critical deficiencies that preclude estimation of statistical power by economists: 1) positing a compelling effect size, and 2) providing an estimate of the variability of an unobserved alternative distribution using simulation methods. We conclude that the test used in the report had high power for detecting employment effects of -1 percent or lower resulting from the Program, equivalent to job losses reducing a conservative estimate of environmental benefits by a third.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
Q42|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q42|The Effect of Forest Access on the Market for Fuelwood in India|Fuelwood collection is often cited as the most important cause of deforestation in developing countries. Use of fuelwood in cooking is a leading cause of indoor air pollution. Using household data from India, we show that households located farther away from the forest spend more time collecting. Distant households are likely to sell more fuelwood and buy less. That is, lower access to forests increases fuelwood collection and sale. This counter-intuitive behavior is triggered by two factors: lower access to forests (a) increases the fixed costs of collecting, which in turn leads to more collection; and (b) drives up local fuelwood prices, which makes collection and sale more profitable. We quantify both these effects. Using our estimates we show that a fifth of the fuelwood collected is consumed outside of rural areas, in nearby towns and cities. Our results imply that at the margin, fuelwood scarcity may lead to increased collection and sale, and exacerbate forest degradation.
Q42|A review of balancing costs in Italy before and after RES introduction|The massive introduction of RES in electricity markets is recognized to have induced a merit order effect on wholesale prices. While day-ahead prices are likely to decline as RES-E production increases, the effects on balancing market sessions are more ambiguous. Taking into account the Northern Italian zone characterized by a high solar PV and hydro penetration, we provide empirical evidence that balancing quantities decreased while costs increased between two samples associated with low (2006–08) and high (2013–15) RES levels. We estimate balancing costs for different technologies and compare their dynamics across specific hours. We find evidence of increasing balancing prices in particular market conditions, that we interpret as a signal of strategic use of real time sessions by conventional producers prone to the merit order effect in the day-ahead market. We compare our results to those obtained in the German market (where, on the contrary, balancing costs have decreased) and postulate that the different market designs may explain these results. Our findings suggest that the Italian policy makers should carefully monitor all trading sessions, especially those close to real time, to avoid the exercise of market power by few operators allowed to guarantee system security and, additionally, to promptly adopt a capacity market.
Q42|Harnessing the Ring of Fire: Political economy of clean energy development finance on geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines|Located along the Ring of Fire in the Asia Pacific, both Indonesia and the Philippines have tremendous natural resource endowments in geothermal energy. Yet, the two countries have dramatic differences in the share of installed capacity they have developed with international development assistance for geothermal development over the last decades. This paper investigates the major interests, institutions and barriers to geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines and then examines how closely clean energy development finance has addressed these barriers. Using qualitative analysis and data from field research in both countries, this paper investigates the effectiveness of the clean energy development finance for renewable energy development. The main findings of this research show that clean energy development finance targeted major barriers to geothermal energy development, but the finance was limited in its impacts on removing the barriers or addressing major domestic political interests, particularly in the case of Indonesia. This research also illuminated limitations of the project-based development approach to solving macro-level problems in clean energy development.
Q42|A comparison of public preferences for different low-carbon energy technologies: Support for CCS, nuclear and wind energy in the United Kingdom|Using a representative national survey in the United Kingdom, we investigated public attitudes towards different low-carbon technologies (carbon capture and storage (CCS), wind and nuclear power) and the factors influencing public support. Overall, we found that respondents were far more likely to support wind energy as their preferred means of mitigating climate change. Older people and those of a higher social grade are more supportive of nuclear power, while age and social grade do not significantly affect support for wind energy. Supporters of the Conservative Party were more likely to oppose wind power. Neither attitudes towards climate change nor environmental attitudes were found to influence public support for wind power or nuclear. Trust in information from environmental groups was associated with greater support for wind energy but lower support for nuclear power. Perceived cost and objective knowledge significantly influenced public support for all three technology types, that is, higher perceived costs and the poorer objective knowledge lead to lower public support. However, self-assessed knowledge did not influence public support. Many factors, including most of the tested demographic factors, did not affect support for any of the three technologies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q42|Trust in Government and Effective Nuclear Safety Governance in Great Britain|Nuclear power can play a role in reducing CO2 emissions and improving energy security. Public attitudes to nuclear safety governance will be critical in whether a large-scale rollout of nuclear power will be successful, so we commissioned a survey of 1,007 members of the British public to understand the determinants of such views. In particular, we focus on the role of trust in government, which has been largely neglected as a subject of study. We find that higher risk perceptions of new nuclear power technologies is associated with lower overall government trustworthiness, while higher engagement levels, being male and intentions to vote Conservative increase trustworthiness. Risk perceptions towards old and the new nuclear technologies do not differ significantly, which raises questions about the view that newer defence-in-depth nuclear technologies can reduce public fear of nuclear power. To build public trust, the UK government must demonstrate its trustworthiness in nuclear safety governance, especially along the dimensions of integrity, reliability and openness. Further, improving stakeholder engagement and thus increasing the levels of public satisfaction towards the government are necessary. Our novel research methodology of determining government trustworthiness in relation to public risk perceptions, technical knowledge, and stakeholder engagement is more broadly applicable and can be transferred to other subject areas and to countries where public concerns over nuclear safety and energy security are significant.
Q42|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q42|China’s Response to Nuclear Safety Post-Fukushima: Genuine or Rhetoric?|The Fukushima crisis has brought the nuclear safety problem to the world’s attention. China is the most ambitious country in the world in nuclear power development. How China perceives and responds to nuclear safety issues carries significant implications on its citizens’ safety and security. This paper examines the Chinese government’s promised and actual response to nuclear safety following the Fukushima crisis, based on (1) statistical analysis of newspaper coverage on nuclear energy, and (2) review of nuclear safety performance and safety governance. Our analysis shows that (i) the Chinese government’s concern over nuclear accidents and safety has surged significantly after Fukushima, (ii) China has displayed strengths in reactor technology design and safety operation, and (iii) China’s safety governance has been continuously challenged by institutional fragmentation, inadequate transparency, inadequate safety professionals, weak safety culture, and ambition to increase nuclear capacity by three-fold by 2050. We suggest that China should improve its nuclear safety standards, as well as safety management and monitoring, reform institutional arrangements to reduce fragmentation, improve information transparency, and public trust and participation, strengthen the safety culture, introduce process-based safety regulations, and promote international collaboration to ensure that China’s response to nuclear safety can be fully implemented in real-life.
Q42|Cross subsidies across network users: renewable self-consumption|The deployment of renewable energies relies upon incentive policies to make their use profitable for owner. However, their development needs adjustments of network to manage intermittency and additional energy fed into the grid. Moreover, the Public Service Obligation Tariffs (PSOT) are increasing to fund policies that support renewable energy deployment. Therefore, some decisions are taken to promote self-consumption by owners of renewable energy power plants, as photovoltaic prosumers. This behavior is encouraged by payment exemptions of PSOT, special tariffs dedicated to remunerate each self-consumed energy unit or savings on the variable part of the network tariff. Thus, some cross-subsidies appear between self-consumers and other users of the network to compensate all these previous self-consumers' gains. We show that these cross-subsidies occur but they strongly rely on self-consumption rate and on renewable energy share in the total produced or consumed energy. So, currently, the levels of cross-subsidies are not significant for consumers. We also show that regulator could fund these cross-subsidies increasing the fixed part of the network tariff for prosumers.
Q42|The Transition to Renewable Energy|The existing economics literature neglects the important role of capacity in the production of renewable energy. To fiill this gap, we construct a model in which renewable energy production is tied to renewable energy capacity, which then becomes a form of capital. This capacity capital can be increased through investment, which we interpret as arising from the allocation of energy, and which therefore comes at the cost of reduced general production. Requiring societal well-being to never decline, we describe how society could optimally elect to split energy in this fashion, the use of non-renewable energy resources, the use of renewable energy resources, and the implied time path of societal well-being. Our model delivers an empirically satisfactory explanation for simultaneous use of non-renewable and renewable energy. We also discuss the optimality of ceasing use of non-renewable energy before the non-renewable resource stock is fully exhausted.
Q42|Addressing the Climate Problem: Choice between Allowances, Feed-in Tariffs and Taxes|Instruments chosen to pursue climate related targets are not always efficient. In this paper we consider an economy with three climate related targets for its electricity generation: a given share of “green” electricity, a given expansion of “green” electricity, and a given reduction of “black” (fossil based) electricity. At its disposal the country has three instruments: an allowance system (tradable green certificates), a subsidy system (feed-in tariffs) and a Pigouvian fossil tax. Each of these instruments may be used to attain any of the given targets. Within the setting of the model it is verified that each kind of the target has only a single efficient instrument under certainty, and that there is a deadweight loss of using other instruments to achieve the target. Similarly, there is also an analysis of instrument choice when several targets are to be attained at the same time. The paper also discusses the case of simultaneous targets as well as the relevance of the various targets.
Q42|The Rise and Fall of Bioenergy|If bioenergy has a less negative impact on the climate than fossil energy, it may be optimal to have a significant increase in the use of bioenergy over time. Due to the difference in the way the climate is affected by the two types of energy, the future time path of the use of bioenergy may be non-monotonic: It may be optimal to first have an increase in its use, and later a reduction. Optimal taxes and subsidies are derived both for the first-best case and for the case of a constraint on the size of the fossil tax.
Q42|¿Qué determina la adopción de tecnologías para la generación de energías renovables entre países?|Este trabajo provee evidencia de que el efecto del cambio tecnológico inducido es un determinante principal de la adopción de las energías solar y eólica. Este estudio hace uso de una estrategia empírica basada en una función de demanda de inputs derivada del proceso de maximización de una función de producción de electricidad. La implementación de este modelo permite entender los principales mecanismos que afectan la decisión de adoptar energías solar y eólica por parte de los productores de electricidad. Para esto, se utiliza una base de datos tipo panel de 29 países de la OECD entre 1990 y 2015. Con ello, se comprueban tres hipótesis: 1) efecto de sustitución puro entre renovables y combustibles fósiles; 2) cambio tecnológico inducido e innovación; 3) Impuestos al combustible. Los resultados muestran que el efecto de cambio tecnológico e innovación es uno de los principales mecanismos que afecta la adopción de las energías solar y eólica.
Q42|Implicaciones de política del Acuerdo de París en la planeación del sistema eléctrico de Colombia|Este documento analiza la incidencia de la política climática internacional en la planeación y el desarrollo del sistema eléctrico de Colombia. Particularmente, estudia las implicaciones que tendría el cumplimiento de las contribuciones nacionalmente determinadas (NDC) presentadas en el Acuerdo de Paris sobre el Sistema Interconectado Nacional. Para lograrlo, este documento se apoyó de las modelaciones realizadas por Arango-Aramburo, et al., (2018), quienes identificaron posibles trayectorias de adaptación del sector eléctrico colombiano, considerando que los escenarios de cambio climático podrían alterar los aportes hídricos a las centrales hidroeléctricas. Los resultados muestran que, ante el incumplimiento del Acuerdo de París, se produciría una disminución en la disponibilidad de generación hidroeléctrica que conduciría a la puesta en marcha de estrategias de adaptación del sistema eléctrico basadas en el uso de combustibles fósiles. En contraste, en el escenario que se implemente el Acuerdo, con su nivel actual de ambición, la disminución en la disponibilidad hídrica en el largo plazo sería menor, y las alternativas de adaptación se dirigirían a emplear energéticos convencionales –carbón, gas– con mecanismo de captura o a diversificar las fuentes de energía hacia las renovables, usando tecnologías como la solar y la eólica.
Q42|Evaluating the case for supporting renewable electricity|Renewable electricity, particularly solar PV and wind, creates external benefits of learning-by-doing that drive down costs and reduce CO2 emissions. The Global Apollo Programme called for collective action to develop renewable energy. This paper sets out a method for assessing whether a trajectory of investment that involves initial subsidies is justified by the subsequent learning-by-doing spillovers and if so, computes the maximum justifiable additional subsidy to provide, taking account of the special features of renewable electricity – geographically dispersed and variable quality resource base and local saturation. Given current costs and learning rates, accelerating the current rate of investment appears globally socially beneficial for solar PV in most but not all cases, less so for on-shore wind. The optimal trajectory appears to involve a gradually decreasing rate of growth of installed capacity.
Q42|Forecasting GDP of OPEC: The role of oil price|In this paper, we examine the role of oil in GDP forecast of selected OPEC member countries using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag Mixed Data Sampling (ADL-MIDAS) approach. Both the in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts of this approach are evaluated and compared with some competing models namely AR(1), ARFIMA, ARIMA and ARDL models. We find that allowing for high frequency oil price data in the predictive model of GDP will enhance its forecast performance. The ADL-MIDAS is found to out-perform all the competing models for both the in-sample and out-of-sample forecast. In addition, we find that the higher the data frequency of oil price, the better the forecast performance. These results are robust to different data frequencies, multiple forecast horizons, and alternative proxies for oil price and measures of forecast performance.
Q42|Too Good to Be True? How Time-Inconsistent Renewable Energy Policies Can Deter Investments|The transition towards low-carbon economies requires massive investments into renewable energies, which are commonly supported through regulatory frameworks. Yet, governments can have incentives - and the ability - to deviate from previously-announced support once those investments have been made, which can deter investments. We analyze a renewable energy regulation game, apply a model of time-inconsistency to renewable energy policy and derive under what conditions governments have incentives to deviate from their commitments. We analyze the effects of various support policies and deployment targets and explain why Spain conducted retrospective changes in the period 2010-2013 whereas Germany stuck to its commitments.
Q42|Renewable Energy Policy in the Age of Falling Technology Costs|Cost of renewable energies have dropped, approaching wholesale power price levels. As a result, the role of renewable energy policy design is shifting – from covering incremental costs towards facilitating risk-hedging. An analytical model of the financing structure of renewable investment projects is developed to assess this effect und used to compare different policy design choices: contracts for differences, sliding premia, fixed premia and a setting without dedicated remuneration mechanism. The expected benefit for electricity consumers from reduced risk and financing costs is approximated at the example of a 2030 scenario for Germany. Policies like sliding premia, previously evaluated as providing low-risk investment environments, provide for less risks hedging, when technology costs approach wholesale power prices. Contracts for differences provide in all scenarios the most effective hedge for investors against power prices uncertainty, enabling low-cost financing and reducing costs for consumers, while also hedging electricity consumers against high power prices.
Q42|Modeling Coordination between Renewables and Grid: Policies to Mitigate Distribution Grid Constraints Using Residential PV-Battery Systems|Distributed photo-voltaic (PV) generation is one of the pillars of energy transitions around the world, but its deployment in the distribution grid requires costly reinforcements and expansions. Prosumage - consisting of a household-level PV unit coupled with a battery storage system - has been proposed as an effective means to facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources and reduce distribution grid stress. However, tapping its full potential requires regulatory interventions; otherwise, system costs could rise despite increasing flexibility. We analyze the effectiveness of different policy schemes to mitigate the need for distribution capacity expansion by incentivizing beneficial storage operation. Our novel top-down modeling approach allows analyzing effects on market prices, storage dispatch, induced distribution grid requirements, system costs, and distributional implications. Numerical results for German power system data indicate that required distribution grid requirements can be reduced through simple feed-in policies. A uniform limit on maximum grid feed-in can leave distribution system operators better off, even if they fully compensate prosumage households for foregone revenue. Policies imposing more differentiated limits at the regional level result in only marginal efficiency improvements. Complete self-sufficiency (autarky) is socially undesirable, as it confines important balancing potential and can increase system costs despite adding storage.
Q42|Flexible Electricity Use for Heating in Markets with Renewable Energy|Using electricity for heating can contribute to decarbonization and provide flexibility to integrate variable renewable energy. We analyze the case of electric storage heaters in German 2030 scenarios with an open-source electricity sector model. Making customary night-time storage heaters temporally more flexible offers only moderate benefits because renewable availability during daytime is limited in the heating season. As storage heaters feature only short-term heat storage, they also cannot reconcile the seasonal mismatch of heat demand in winter and high renewable availability in summer. Generally, flexible electric heaters increase the use of generation technologies with low variable costs, which are not necessarily renewables.
Q42|The nexus between climate negotiations and low-carbon innovation: a geopolitics of renewable energy patents|Intellectual property is a central issue in the climate negotiations. On the one hand, it shapes and encourages innovation in low-carbon technologies. On the other hand, it reduces access to these technologies by giving patent holders market power. We analyze the interactions between climate negotiations and the acquisition of patents on renewable energy technologies. First, we recall the geopolitical nature of intellectual property and explain how it is modified by the particularities of low-carbon innovation. The second part of this article is devoted to an inventory of the production of inventions in renewable energy technologies (RETs). In particular, we focus on the relative technological advantages of countries and the value of patented inventions. Major changes are observed in the geographical distribution of low-carbon innovation during the 2000s and they foreshadow a reorganization of the geopolitical balances of innovation in renewable energies.
Q42|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and stakeholders survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyses the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration and main studied topics. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues and social aspects. The paper concludes on the policy implications of the mentioned results. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. Some recurring lacks though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policy makers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q42|Market Efficiency and Optimal Hedging Strategy for the US Ethanol Market|The aim of this paper is to study the ethanol price dynamics in the US market and find the optimal hedging strategy. To this end, we first attempt to identify the long-term relationship between ethanol spot prices and the prices of futures contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT). Then, we model the short-term dynamics between these two prices using a Markov-switching vector error correction model (Ms-VECM). Finally, accounting for the variance dynamics using a Gjr-MGarch error structure, we compute a time-varying hedge ratio and determine the optimal hedging strategy in the US ethanol market.
Q42|Investment versus Output Subsidies: Implications of Alternative Incentives for Wind Energy|This paper examines the choice between subsidizing investment or output to promote socially desirable production. We exploit a natural experiment in which wind farm developers could choose an investment or an output subsidy to estimate the impact of these policy instruments on productivity. Using instrumental variables and matching estimators, we find that wind farms claiming the investment subsidy produced 10 to 12 percent less power than wind farms claiming the output subsidy, and that this effect reflects subsidy incentives rather than selection. Introducing investment subsidies caused the Federal government to spend 14 percent more per unit of output from wind farms.
Q42|The Road ahead for Solar PV Power|Over the past decade, solar photovoltaic (PV) power has experienced dramatic deployment growth coupled with substantial decreases in system prices. This article examines how solar PV power is currently positioned in the electricity marketplace and how that position is likely to evolve in the foreseeable future. We first assess the current cost competitiveness of solar PV in select U.S. locations and industry segments using the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) metric. This framework enables us to quantify the effects that supportive public policies, time-of-use pricing, and anticipated future technological improvements have on the cost of solar PV. We also build on recent analytical work that has identified circumstances under which it becomes financially attractive to add behind-the-meter batteries to an existing PV solar system. Taken together, our findings suggest that solar power, by itself and in conjunction with low cost storage, is positioned to account for a significant and growing share of the overall energy mix.
Q42|Slovak electricity market and the merit order effect of photovoltaics|This paper analyses Slovak electricity market with a focus on photovoltaic energy. It evaluates the impact of the solar electricity penetration into electricity mix on spot prices, seeks evidence of the merit order effect in the Slovak electricity market and quantifies it based on hourly data. The multivariate regression analysis covers the period 2011-2016. The rather small merit order effect estimated by an OLS time series model leads to the small decrease of Slovak electricity wholesale prices. This spot price reduction attributable to the photovoltaics does not outweigh the costs of the support scheme borne by end users what implies a consumer loss.
Q42|Adoption of solar and wind energy: The roles of carbon pricing and aggregate policy support|This paper analyzes the roles of policies and preferences in national adoption of solar and wind energy technologies. We use cross-sectional and panel regressions for both the European Union and a broader international sample. We find that countries that price carbon emissions have gone on to adopt more solar and wind energy. The aggregate level of policy support, measured in euros per megawatt hour, appears to have been important for solar energy adoption. We also find that solar energy adoption has been larger in countries with higher proportions of people concerned about climate change. In addition, we assess the effects of other key explanators including financial system size and income levels.
Q42|The Heterogeneous Impact of Coal Prices on the Location of Dirty and Clean Steel Plants|Climate policy will predominantly affect industries that primarily rely on fossil fuels, such as steelmaking. Within these industries, exposure may be different by country according to the energy-intensity of national plants. We estimate the effect of coal prices on steel plant location worldwide and production preferences for BOF, a polluting technology, and EAF, a greener one. A 1% increase in national coal prices reduces BOF and EAF installed capacity by around 0.51% and 0.34% respectively. We simulate the implementation of a stringent European carbon market with no border adjustment and find a non-negligible shift in steel production outside Europe, with limited impact on the technologies employed to produce steel. If applied worldwide, the same policy would primarily affect production in Asia, which relies on BOF and currently benefits from lower coal prices.
Q42|Antidumping and Feed-In Tariffs as Good Buddies? Modeling the EU-China Solar Panel Dispute|The paper analyzes the interactions between trade and renewable energy policies based on the EU--China Solar Panel dispute which is the most significant antidumping (AD) complaint in Europe. We build a price competition duopoly model with differentiated products and intra-industry trade in photovoltaic equipment. We provide two relevant types of AD duties. The optimal AD which maximizes social domestic welfare always increases with the feed-in tariff (FIT) program set in the home country. The appropriate AD -- equalizing the foreign firm's price on the domestic market with the foreign market price -- decreases with the FIT program. We show that the optimal FIT increases with the AD duty. Therefore, trade and renewable energy optimal policies may complement one another. When setting AD duties in clean energy sectors, it is important not to ignore the extent to which renewable energy is subsidized.
Q42|Non-renewable and intermittent renewable energy sources: Friends and foes?|This paper studies the links between non-renewable and intermittent renewable energy sources in the production of electricity. Using U.S. state-level data from 1998 to 2015, we find that the relationship between the price of natural gas and investments in solar and wind capacity is non-linear and can be represented by an inverted U-shape. Hence, for relatively low natural gas prices, the two modes of production are substitutes. After a price threshold is reached, the two are complementary. A theoretical explanation argues that this stylized fact is the result of a trade-off between two characteristics of these modes of production: the high degree of flexibility of electricity production using natural gas as an input and the low marginal cost of renewable energy sources.
Q42|How to measure greenhouse gas emissions by fuel type for binary sustainability standards: Average or Marginal emissions? An example of fertilizer use and corn ethanol|This study proposed a modelling framework which addresses various issues such as decreasing marginal yield of corn with respect to fertilizer use in biofuel production and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions. Particularly, the framework considered exogenous changes including oil price development and biofuel policy through market interactions of different inputs and outputs in biofuel production. We applied the modelling framework numerically in an example of corn ethanol production in the United States to illustrate how the economics of fertilizer use could impact the GHG emissions based on both average and marginal emissions. The results show that higher oil prices increase the prices of gasoline, natural gas, ethanol, and corn, which stimulates corn-based ethanol production and increases corn yields by encouraging profit-maximizing farmers to increase their application rate of nitrogen fertilizers slightly. The effect is that, on average, GHG emissions per unit of produced corn ethanol remain almost constant if oil price increases from 60 to 120 $/barrel. However, the marginal emissions per additional unit of ethanol production increase by 2.2% or10%, depending on whether the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit is implemented or not. More important is that the marginal emissions of corn ethanol are much higher than those of conventional gasoline. Although on average there are GHG emission savings of corn ethanol compared to conventional gasoline, the savings are negative when based on the marginal emissions of corn ethanol. An interesting implication is that the effectiveness of biofuel policies aimed at reducing GHG emissions might be questionable.
Q42|Oil Prices and the Renewable Energy Sector|Energy security, climate change, and growing energy demand issues are moving up on the global political agenda, and contribute to the rapid growth of the renewable energy sector. In this paper we investigate the effects of oil price shocks, and also of uncertainty about oil prices, on the stock returns of clean energy and technology companies. In doing so, we use monthly data that span the period from May 1983 to December 2016, and a bivariate structural VAR model that is modified to accommodate GARCH-in-mean errors, and it is used to generate impulse response functions. Moreover, we examine the asymmetry of stock responses to oil price shocks and compare them accounting for oil price uncertainty, while effects of oil price shocks of different magnitude are also investigated. Our evidence indicates that oil price uncertainty has no statistically significant effect on stock returns, and that the relationship between oil prices and stock returns is symmetric. Our results are robust to alternative model specifications and stock prices of clean energy companies.
Q42|Consumer Preferences and Soft Load Control on the Swedish Electricity Market|"The main purpose of the present report is to present the results of the project ""The electricity customer, a new power on the electricity market?"" The main purpose of the project is to estimate lost values due to various restrictions on household electricity consumption, which gives us ""prices"" of schematic reductions in power through behavioral adaptations among Swedish households. Another purpose is to estimate households' costs for short power outages, which gives a ""price"" of a targeted disconnection of electricity. The willingness of households to adjust their electricity consumption is governed by several factors - both economic and non-economic. An additional objective is therefore to analyze the extent to which households are willing to adapt for non-economic reasons, for example, to facilitate the integration of renewable electricity production such as solar and wind power. To achieve the objectives of the project, we analyze household habits and preferences for electricity usage in connection with daily demand peaks during winter time in Sweden. We have chosen an empirical approach where households are subjected to choose between hypothetical electricity contracts where different types of restrictions in the use of large-scale household appliances are included. The different characteristics of the agreements or contracts relate to (1) maximum power usage in watts, (2) the duration of the restriction, (3) number of occasions of restriction and (4) the ability to change the selection of which electrical appliances to be used during the restriction. In addition to the above-mentioned approach, we also study how this relates to other electricity usage (e.g. heating, lighting, TV, etc.). This is done by asking households for compensation requirements to accept full power outages, i.e. black-outs. By studying the difference in compensation requirements between the ""soft"" limitation and the black-outs, the value of different loads can be estimated. The results reveal that households on average require a compensation of SEK 2000 - 3700 depending on the severity of electricity consumption constraint. Depending on how we define the potential loss in potential electricity usage for different scenarios, the results can be translated to be between SEK 20 and 40 per kWh. In the case of total power outages, the valuation is significantly higher and corresponds to SEK 3000 to 4600. This can in turn be translated to the equivalent of SEK 400 - 600 per kWh. The results thus indicate a significant difference between the value of the load in a soft control DSM program, and the remaining load (e.g. heating, lighting and TV). Compared to previous literature on the value of lost load, VOLL, our estimates fall in the higher range, especially compared to Swedish studies. We believe this is in line with the context outlined in the present study with rather many occasions of disruptions at the peak demand hour. The results also show that a pro-environmental cheap talk make people more likely to opt into a DSM program with load controlled at many occasions. It did not, however, make people see more lenient on hard load controls in general. An immediate policy implication from the results is that specific policies aiming at stimulating behavioral changes probably are very ineffective and/or costly. As a result, policies to affect demand response should focus on automatization and passive response. A related policy implication is that it is far from obvious that demand response is always more cost effective than supply response, i.e., increasing production of electricity."
Q42|Structural analysis of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland|The paper is a preliminary evaluation of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland. The analysis is based on the Technology Innovation System concept. The paper includes the two first steps of the procedure: the structural analysis and the technology stage of development analysis. We found that, although there are not any offshore wind farms in Poland yet, Polish industry has broad experience in implementing offshore wind projects and can cover a large part of the offshore wind farm investment. However, knowledge area is not a strong point of the innovation system. Also the institutional (political) uncertainty, as well as inadequate public system of support for RES, may be significant barriers for the development of the technology. So far, the Baltic Sea has remained weakly explored in terms of offshore wind deployment. Poland, with its large sea space and good wind and soil conditions, may play a pivotal role in kick-starting the offshore market in this area.
Q42|Optimal RES differentiation under technological uncertainty|Should Renewable Energy Sources (RES) auction systems support development of a wide range of different technologies or instead focus on supporting a select few? We review some of the approaches to RES technologies differentiation in relation to RES auction designs. Subsequently, we use an analytical model to examine the optimal differentiation of RES technologies when the future costs of RES installations are subject to uncertainty. We allow uncertainty to influence the cost function in two ways: (i) as an uncertain magnitude of the learning-by-doing effect and (ii) as a possibility for an exogenous random technological shock (such as an unexpected technological breakthrough). We find that uncertainty of learning rates increases the benefits of differentiation. This result, among other things, implies that optimal differentiation predicted by the energy models that assume fixed learning rates is biased downward. On the other hand, where exogenous shocks are present the differences between the costs of technologies are large and the planner has less incentive to commit to support a diversified pool of technologies and more incentive to favour the choice of a technology which is cheapest at the given moment in time. This last result is more pronounced when there is no learning-by-doing effect. We recommend that countries with potentially large learning rate effects - such as those countries at the technological frontier - should increase differentiation, while more peripheral countries should limit differentiation.
Q42|Short-term impacts of solar lanterns on child health : experimental evidence from Bangladesh|We implemented a 16-month randomized field experiment in unelectrified areas of Bangladesh to identify health impacts of solar lanterns among school-aged children. Our analysis of various health-related indicators?self-reporting, spirometers, and professional medical checkups?showed modest improvements in eye redness and irritation but no noticeable improvement in respiratory symptoms among treated students. Varying the number of solar products received within treatment households did not alter these results. This limited health benefit was not caused by nonutilization of the products by treated children, spillover effects from treated to control students, or treatment heterogeneity resulting from unfavorable family cooking environments.
Q42|Identifying technological sub-trajectories in photovoltaic patents|This paper proposes a search strategy for photovoltaic patents which allows to distinguish the photovoltaic system into sub-trajectories. Identifying and analyzing sub-trajectories is of particular importance for understanding micro patterns of technological change. The proposed search strategy is modular and replicable. It performs similar to leading benchmark search strategies but allows to distinguish three cell sub-trajectories and two system components. Descriptive analysis reveals that inventive activity differs between sub-trajectories. The market dominating silicon wafer cell sub-trajectory shows hardly any patented inventive activity. Country comparison reveals that Asian countries focus on the emerging cell sub-trajectory. The USA focus on the established thin-film sub-trajectory and inventive activity in Germany focuses on module components. While the proposed search strategy allows for a fine-grained analysis of inventive activity in photovoltaics, the empirical assessment of sub- trajectories in general can increase understanding of technological change and can be used to implement policy interventions at a microtechnological level.
Q42|Low-quality or high-quality coal? Household energy choice in rural Beijing|Household low-quality coal consumption contributes to severe haze pollution in China. In response, subsidy policies on high-quality coal consumption and the adoption of new-type coal stoves have been implemented. Using survey data in rural Beijing, this paper characterizes the determinants of coal consumption and switching behavior between low-quality and high-quality coals. To this end, we apply bivariate probit regression and Tobit regression to evaluate the effectiveness of government policies and the influence of cognitive & psychological and socioeconomic factors on coal consumption behaviors. Our empirical results reveal that prosociality and local environmental concern play crucial roles in household choices and consumption behaviors between two types of coals, but global environmental concern does not. The promotion of new-type coal stoves significantly facilitates the transition from low-quality to high-quality coal, while price subsidies on high-quality coal do not influence market acceptance of high-quality coal. These results demonstrate the importance of cognitive & psychological factors and promotion policies on coal consumption behavior. Overall, we suggest that an education campaign or program regarding local environmental awareness, prosocial values and behaviors and on new-type coal stoves should be further promoted to accelerate the transition from low-quality to high-quality coal.
Q42|Energy Use and Growth of Manufacturing Sector: Evidence from Turkey|This study investigates the relationship between Energy use and the growth of the Turkish Manufacturing Sector, using Vector Error Correction and Granger causality, between 1960 and 2015. The research found a long-run association among these variables. However, while the VEC granger causality test result suggests no causality running, either direction, from predetermined Energy Use to Growth in Manufacturing Sector, the Variance decomposition and impulse response tests suggested a positive causality, running from contemporaneous values Energy Use to current and future values of Growth in the Manufacturing Sector of Turkey. It is recommended that more investments be made in the energy sector to help sustain the current performance in the manufacturing sector.
Q42|Examining Shanghai Consumer Preferences for Electric Vehicles and Their Attributes|In this study, we conducted a stated choice survey in Shanghai in order to examine the attitudes of Shanghai residents towards electric vehicles and their attributes. Multinomial Logit and Random Parameter Logit models were used to analyze the response data for three samples—the full sample, a subsample of potential electric vehicle purchasers, and a subsample of unlikely electric vehicle purchasers. We found that the respondents in each of the three groups preferred electric vehicles with a longer driving range, a shorter charging time, a faster maximum speed, lower pollution emissions, lower fuel cost, and a lower price. However, an overlong driving range seems not to be a must for potential electric vehicles (EV) purchasers. In addition, a comparison of the two subsamples showed that potential electric vehicle purchasers were willing to pay more than their counterparts for enhancing vehicle attributes. We also investigated the determinants of likely electric vehicle purchase and found a number of demographic characteristics that were statistically significant.
Q42|On self-interested preferences for burden sharing rules: An econometric analysis for the costs of energy policy measures|This paper examines the acceptance of burden sharing rules that refer to the costs of the German energy transition, which is one of the most challenging and disputed national climate and energy policy measures. Based on data from a comprehensive survey of more than 2,200 citizens, the empirical analysis reveals that the polluter-pays rule has by far the highest support compared with the ability-to-pay rule and especially compared with the equal-pay rule, which is widely refused in the sample. Since the distribution of the costs of the German energy transition is largely in line with the polluter-pays rule, its strong support seems to contribute to the high acceptance of the energy transition at all. The main result of our econometric analysis with multivariate binary and ordered probit models is that not only some attitudinal factors like environmental values and political identification, but especially economic self-interest is relevant since (equivalent) energy expenditures have a significantly negative effect on the support of the polluter-pays rule and especially (equivalent) income has a significantly negative effect on the preference for the ability-to-pay rule. These results suggest that the use of distributional arguments for the criticism of energy policy measures is not necessarily value-driven on the basis of real perceptions of distributive justice, but can also be strategically motivated to prevent and combat economically unfavorable measures. Together with the strong general support of the polluter-pays rule, these results suggest that a sharp reorientation of the German energy transition due to distributional arguments is not very useful.
Q42|Effects of Changes in Wholesale Electricity Market Structure on Wind Generation in the Midwestern United States|This paper estimates the effect of starting the Midcontinent ISO electricity market in 2005 on wind generation. We find an average increase in wind plant capacity factors of 5.0-6.7% associated with the start of the market, relative to neighboring wind plants not in the market. These results are robust to potentially confounding variation associated with wind speed differences determined by weather. The increased capacity factors are likely attributed to reduced wind plant curtailment from operational improvements associated with starting the market, including improved transmission interconnections and more granular generator dispatch scheduling. We formulate a simulation model that demonstrates this mechanism. While there has been plenty of anecdotal evidence from technical experts and market participants that competitive wholesale markets are beneficial for wind energy, this analysis provides the first statistical evidence to support that claim.
Q42|Did the renewable fuel standard shift market expectations of the price of ethanol?|It is commonly believed that the response of the price of corn ethanol (and hence of the price of corn) to shifts in biofuel policies operates in part through market expectations and shifts in storage demand, yet to date it has proved difficult to measure these expectations and to empirically evaluate this view. We utilize a recently proposed methodology to estimate the market's expectations of the prices of ethanol, unfinished motor gasoline and crude oil at horizons from three months to one year. We quantify the extent to which price changes were anticipated by the market, the extent to which they were unanticipated, and how the risk premium in these markets has evolved. We show that the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) is likely to have increased ethanol price expectations by as much $1.45 in the year before and in the year after the implementation of the RFS had started. Our analysis of the term structure of expectations provides support for the view that a shift in ethanol storage demand starting in 2005 caused an increase in the price of ethanol. There is no conclusive evidence that the tightening of the RFS in 2008 shifted market expectations, but our analysis suggests that policy uncertainty about how to deal with the blend wall raised the risk premium in the ethanol futures market in mid-2013 by as much as 50 cents at longer horizons. Finally, we present evidence against a tight link from ethanol price expectations to corn price expectations and hence to storage demand for corn in 2005-06.
Q42|The empirics of enabling investment and innovation in renewable energy|This working paper undertakes econometric analysis to assess the impacts of climate mitigation policies and the quality of the investment environment on investment and innovation in renewable power in OECD and G20 countries. It also assesses how countries’ investment environments interact with climate mitigation policies to influence investment and patent activity in renewable power. The paper gathered and tested data across OECD and G20 countries on more than 70 explanatory variables, which were analysed using two Poisson-family regression models: one to investigate determinants of investment flows in renewable power from 2000 until 2014; and one to investigate determinants of patent counts in renewable-power technologies from 2000 until 2012. Results of the econometric analysis are consistent with the main hypothesis in this paper that beyond setting climate mitigation policies, policy makers need to strengthen the general investment environment and align it with climate mitigation policies in order to mobilise investment and innovation in renewable power across OECD and G20 countries.
Q42|Estimating Publicly-Mobilised Private Finance for Climate Action: A South African Case Study|This study estimates and analyses publicly-mobilised private finance for climate action in South Africa, between 2010 and 2015. The mobilisation effect of public climate finance on private finance is first estimated through an analysis and attribution of project-level co-finance data. A pilot-methodology (the investor perspective) then expands the analysis to also incorporate the mobilisation effect of financial support provided by South African policies in two sectors: renewable energy and energy efficiency. Results suggest that, in the South African context, domestic public actors play the major mobilisation role by providing support through targeted policies, and to a lesser extent by committing project-level co-finance.
Q42|Can There Be A Competitor To Traditional Arable Crops In Romania?|Regarding land use, in the member states of the European Union it can be established that maize is the most productive traditional arable crop. The annual productive area of maize in 2015 was approximately 9.33 million hectares in the EU 28, which was 3% less than that of 2014. There was also a reduction in average production, which, according to member states’ figures decreased to 6.15 tonnes/ hectare. This reduction is due to the worsening natural conditions. Consequently, the year’s production was about 57 million tonnes at the end of 2015. This represented a reduction of 25% compared to 2014. The second largest production crop in the EU 28 is wheat, although here, too, a reduction can be observed when the data for the last 5 years is examined. This reduction in crop production prompts arable farmers to engage in the production of other crops in those areas where there is a continual reduction in crop production. In my study I will introduce the profitability and risks associated with those plants suited for energy extraction, which can be competitive with the traditional arable plant cultivation.
Q42|Switching towards coal or renewable energy? The effects of financial capital on energy transitions|Does a country's stock of financial capital affect its ability to achieve energy transitions? This paper uses data for up to 137 countries for the period 1998–2013 to investigate the importance of financial capital for changes in the use of each energy type. I find that financial capital supports transition to more capital-intensive energy types. For high-income countries, financial capital facilitates transitions from fossil fuels to modern renewable energy sources, especially wind. Both private credit from banks and domestic private debt securities support greater shares of wind energy. For lower-income countries, financial capital supports progression from biomass towards fossil fuel energy sources such as coal. I also find that countries with larger stocks of financial capital are more likely to move to more capital-intensive electricity generation systems.
Q42|Socio-economic and enviromental effects of bioenergy based on wood ine the development of remote areas|Traditional energy sources based on oil, coal, and natural gas have proven to be highly effective, but at the same time they have many negative environmental effects. Also by technical and economical points traditional energy sources are not available in many remote areas. In this paper, the authors have been discussed the alternative approach in energy supply, which also has positive social-economic and environmental effects. This paper provides a new solution for energy supply in remote areas by implementing bioenergy based on woodchips, which has multi-sector effects. Bioenergy generation based on woodchips has multi-sector effect that is why authors offer to combine forest cleaning cutting and forest thinning with bioenergy based on woodchips in one project which will have social, economic and ecological effects. The situation with forest fires makes the authors idea more attractive because after forest fires the problem of cleaning cutting in forest became very important and urgent by ecological and economical points: after cleaning cutting there are a lot of low quality wood which by author’s idea can be recycled into chips for bioenergy. This methodology has been applied to bioenergy and regional development decisions in remote areas which mainly have a problem with energy provision; it is suitable for applications to infrastructure development projects in any remote forested region of the world. Mobile bioenergy generation based on woodchips in remote areas settle the complex of environmental, social, economic problems and can become the driver of development of the region.
Q42|A Bivariate Modelling of the Electricity Consumption-Financial Development Nexus for Ghana|The current study modelled the long run and short run links between financial developments and disaggregate energy consumption (electricity consumption) in Ghana for the period 1970 to 2011 using Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the study on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between electricity consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is a key explanatory variable in electricity consumption management in order to attain sustainable energy consumption and economic growth. The issues of structural breaks in unit root and direction of causality should be consider in future studies.
Q42|Bivariate modelling of the financial development-fossil fuel consumption nexus in Ghana|The present paper modelled the relationship between financial developments and fossil fuel energy consumption in Ghana for the period 1970-2011 by applying Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the paper on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between fossil fuel consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is an explanatory variable in fossil fuel consumption management in achieving sustainable oil energy consumption for economic growth. The direction of causality between the two variables should be examined in future studies as well as multivariate analysis and structural breaks.
Q42|Integrated Multi-Attribute Value and Analytic Hierarchy Process Model of Sustainable Energy Development in Central Europe and East Asia|This research presents an overview of different sustainable energy development scenarios in Central Europe and East Asia, and is aimed to evaluate the efficiency and availability for introducing a specific sustainable energy source. Accordingly: wind, hydropower, solar, bioenergy, geothermal, nuclear energy. By conducting analysis through multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) and analytic hierarchy process (AHP) models, divergences among energy options in Central Europe and East Asia are emphasised due to their preferences in hierarchy. Our evaluation results indicate that Central Europe and East Asia should introduce different sustainable energy technologies on account of their own strengths and drawbacks in energy judgements and criterions
Q42|Overview of Sustainable Energy in Central Europe and East Asia|This paper starts with a brief literature review of sustainable energy literature with focus on economic aspects of sustainability. This is followed by description of energy situation in Central Europe and East Asia with a focus on sustainable energy resources. Our analysis of energy sector describes energy sector and both fossil and renewable fuel energy supply with particular emphasize on electricity.
Q42|Renewable Energy Sources in Central Europe and East Asia|This paper provides overview of all sustainable energy resources in two geographic areas- Central Europe and East Asia. Comparison of renewable energy sources in these two areas was not done before. We cover newly emerging important renewable energy sources of wind power, solar energy and bioenergy together with somehow less investigated geothermal sources. Our analysis includes also a well established hydroelectricity and nuclear energy. While nuclear energy is not a renewable resource, it was included into this analysis to provide complete coverage of all competitive energy sources with respect to carbon-based fossil fuels. We provide both descriptive and econometric analysis complemented with appropriate case studies.
Q42|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Belarus|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets and policies in Belarus. Belarus remains the country with a critical level of energy dependence on Russia. Availability of cheap Russian sources and lack of diversification within energy sector hinder Belarus from expanding the potential of local energy resources. While energy independence and security, which is defined as share of local energy sources in the total energy balance, is declared as Belarusian priority, there is essentially no biofuels industry v Belarus. An interesting option of development of biofuels is a possibility of utilization of large areas unsuitable for human food or animal feed production because of Chernobyl nuclear disaster.
Q42|Quantification of Biofuels Potential of Post-Soviet Countries in the Context of Global Biofuels Development|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets in Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine and it estimates prospects of their future development in the context of global biofuels development. We first provide a general characterisation of biofuels, followed by description of development of biofuel industry in the key selected countries and the outline of current trends on the global market. This is followed by a quantitative analysis of the possible development of biofuels in Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine
Q42|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Russia|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets and policies in Russian Federation. It shows that one of the many barriers that hinder biofuel development is strong oil and gas lobby, which cooperates with Russian government. The main obstacle for the development of biofuel’s sector in Russia is a significant lack of coherent policy and regulation. Creation of healthy biofuel’s sector requires authorities to found a new governing body, owning adequate rights, staffed with qualified personnel and resistant to the external influence. In order to reduce the uncertainty in biofuels sphere, the government would have to provide sustained long-term policy commitment and clarify the energy strategy. These actions would bring confidence in investments into sector of biofuels and motivate the growth within industry. Until the proposed incentives are not established on the legal base, the progress in the sector of biofuels is not possible. Even in case of the growing support from the government, the rapid flourishing of the sector is not expected.
Q42|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Ukraine|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets Ukraine. While Ukraine has great competitive advantage in the production of biofuels based on availability of the feedstock and fertile soils, it does not utilize this opportunity despite the policy goal of decreasing energy dependence on Russian fossil fuels. In the recent years Ukraine was working on fulfilment of European standards in the sector of biofuels. Most importantly, as opposed to Russia, Ukraine has built legislative base which aims to support the industry development and offer large scale of benefits. But due to high excise duty, low oil prices and no penalties for not achieving established indicators, the biofuel industry still stays non-operating.
Q42|Renewable energy, arable land, agriculture, CO2 emissions, and economic growth in Morocco|The autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds approach to cointegration and Granger causality tests are used to investigate the dynamic short and long-run causality relationships between per capita renewable energy (RE) consumption, carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, real gross domestic product (GDP), agricultural value added (AVA), and arable land use (LUSE) for the case of Morocco during the period 1980-2013. Two models are used: the first with the AVA variable, and the second with the LUSE variable. The Wald test confirms the existence of a long-run relationship between variables for each considered model. Our long-run estimates indicate that an increase in economic growth, agricultural production, and arable land use contribute to increase the use of renewable energy, while a decrease in CO2 emissions increases renewable energy consumption. Granger causality tests reveal the existence of a short-run unidirectional causality running from AVA and from LUSE to RE consumption; a long-run unidirectional causality running from LUSE to RE, and a long-run bidirectional causality between AVA and RE. We recommend that Morocco should continue to encourage renewable energy use because this latter is not in competition with agricultural production for land use, but rather it is a complementary activity.
