Q47|Outlook for Electric Vehicles and Implications for the Oil Market|The market for electric vehicles (EVs) is growing rapidly. Subsidies and technological improvements are expected to increase the market share of EVs over the coming decade. In its base-case scenario, the International Energy Agency (IEA) expects EV use to rise from 4 million vehicles in 2018 to 120 million by 2030, or from 0.3 per cent to over 7 per cent of the global car fleet. However, depending on environmental policy decisions, the number of EVs on the road by 2030 could reasonably range between 57 million and 300 million (4 to 19 per cent of the global fleet). The switch to EVs will have important implications for the global oil market. Our analysis shows that for every additional 100 million EVs on the road in 2030, gasoline consumption would fall by about one million barrels of oil per day and oil prices would be 4 per cent lower. Applying this rule-of-thumb to IEA’s base-case oil price projection of US$90 for 2030, we find that different assumptions on the size of the EV fleet can reasonably push oil prices within a range of US$85 to US$93.
Q47|Assessing reliability of aggregated inflation views in the European Commission consumer survey|Using a novel approach based on micro-level survey responses, we assess the reliability of aggregated inflation expectations estimates in the European Commission Consumer Survey. We identify the share of consumers, whose qualitative and quantitative views on expected increase of prices do not match each other. Then we consider the impact of inconsistent survey responses on balance statistics and mean values of quantitative inflation expectations. We also analyze expectations’ formation estimating the sticky-information models. The results, based on Finnish and Polish data, suggest that even if the fraction of inconsistent survey responses is non-negligible, it matters neither for the aggregated figures of inflation views, nor for understanding of the formation of inflation expectations by consumers. We conclude that micro-level inconsistencies do not reduce the reliability of the current EC Consumer Survey dataset. Our results also indicate that inconsistent responses are not important drivers of the inflation overestimation bias displayed in the data.
Q47|Energy Consumption of Bitcoin Mining|After its introduction in 2008, increasing Bitcoin prices and a booming number of other cryptocurrencies lead to a growing discussion of how much energy is consumed during the production of these currencies. Being the most expensive and the most popular cryptocurrency, both the business world and the research community have started to question the energy intensity of bitcoin mining. This paper only focuses on computational power demand during the proof-of-work process rather than estimating the whole energy intensity of mining. We make use of 160 GB of bitcoin blockchain data to estimate the energy consumption and power demand of bitcoin mining. We considered the performance of 269 different hardware models (CPU, GPU, FPGA, and ASIC). For estimations, we defined two metrics, namely; minimum consumption and maximum consumption. The targeted time span for the analysis was from 3 January 2009 to 5 June 2018. We show that the historical peak of power consumption of bitcoin mining took place during the bi-weekly period commencing on 18 December 2017 with a demand of between 1.3 and 14.8 GW. This maximum demand figure was between the installed capacities of Finland (~16 GW) and Denmark (~14 GW). We also show that, during June 2018, energy consumption of bitcoin mining from difficulty recalculation was between 15.47 and 50.24 TWh per year.
Q47|European Gas Markets, Trading Hubs, and Price Formation: A Network Perspective|We apply network theory to analyse the interactions of trading hub prices, and to assess the harmonisation of the European gas market. We construct dynamic networks, where the nodes correspond to the twelve EU trading hubs, and where the edges weight the causality between the variations of the respective gas prices. Network density dynamically calculates the aggregate quantity of causal interactions recorded within the system, which provides information pertaining to the integration of the European gas network. We document a number of spikes in network density, suggesting short periods of improved connectivity of European gas markets. We argue that these results appear to be driven by exogenous factors, such as unseasonal weather patterns, seismic activity and pipeline capacity reductions or outages. The findings elucidate the time varying nature of European gas market dynamics, and the importance of continual monitoring of market evolution.
Q47|Seasonal Flexibility in the European Natural Gas Market|The paper focuses on a seasonal demand swing in the European gas market. We quantify and compare the role of different flexibility options (domestic production, pipeline and LNG imports, and gas storages) in covering European demand fluctuations in monthly resolution. We contribute to the existing literature focusing on seasonal flexibility by addressing the problem with a mathematical gas market optimisation model. Empirically, our paper provides valuable insights with regard to declining North Western European gas production. Furthermore, we focus our discussion on specific flexibility features of pipeline versus LNG supplies and gas imports versus storage dispatch. In terms of methodology, we develop a bottom-up market optimisation model and publish the complete source code (which is still uncommon for gas market models). Furthermore, we propose a new metric based on the coefficient of variation to quantify the importance of supply sources for seasonal flexibility provision.
Q47|Forecasting crude oil prices with DSGE models|We run an oil prices forecasting competition among a set of structural models, includ- ing vector autoregressions and dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models. Our results highlights two principles. First, forecasts should exploit the mean reversion of the real oil price over long horizons. Second, models should not replicate the high volatility of oil prices observed in sample. Abiding by these principles, we show that a small scale DSGE model performs much better in real oil price forecasting than the random walk as well as vector autoregressions.
Q47|Global Futures of Energy, Climate, and Policy: Qualitative and Quantitative Foresight towards 2055|Existing long-term energy and climate scenarios are typically a rather simple extrapolation of past trends. Both qualitative and quantitative outlooks co-exist, but they often focus narrowly on individual perspectives, which is opposed to the interlinked and complex nature of energy and climate. Therefore, this study presents a set of novel and multidisciplinary narratives that give insight into four distinct and extreme yet plausible worlds: base case ‘Business-as-usual’, worst case ‘Survival of the Fittest’, best case ‘Green Cooperation’, and surprise scenario ‘ClimateTech’. Going beyond other outlooks, our narratives focus on changes in the geopolitical landscape and global order, social perspectives on climate issues, and technological progress. These holistic scenarios are designed to overcome previous barriers by an innovative bridging between both qualitative and quantitative methods. We start with the generation of qualitative scenario storylines using techniques of foresight analysis, including a facilitated expert workshop. Then, we calibrate the numerical energy systems model Multimod to reflect the different storylines. Finally, we unite and refine storylines and numerical model results into holistic narratives. In addition to the narratives (which include quantitative results on e.g. emissions, energy consumption, and the electricity mix), the study generates insights on the key uncertainties and drivers of different pathways of (more or less successful) climate change mitigation. Additionally, a set of transparent indicators serves as an early-warning system to identify which of the paths the world might enter. Lessons learnt include the dangers from increased isolationism and the importance of integrating economic and energy-related objectives as well as the large role of public opinion and social transition.
Q47|Forecasting daily electricity prices with monthly macroeconomic variables|We analyse the importance of macroeconomic information, such as industrial production index and oil price, for forecasting daily electricity prices in two of the main European markets, Germany and Italy. We do that by means of mixed-frequency models, introducing a Bayesian approach to reverse unrestricted MIDAS models (RU-MIDAS). We study the forecasting accuracy for different horizons (from 1 day ahead to 28 days ahead) and by considering different specifications of the models. We find gains around 20% at short horizons and around 10% at long horizons. Therefore, it turns out that the macroeconomic low frequency variables are more important for short horizons than for longer horizons. The benchmark is almost never included in the model confidence set. JEL Classification: C11, C53, Q43, Q47
Q47|Residual shape risk on natural gas market with mixed jump diffusion|This paper introduces residual shape risk as a new subclass of energy commodity risk. Residual shape risk is caused by insufficient liquidity of energy forward market when retail energy supplier has to hedge his short sales by a non-flexible standard baseload product available on wholesale market. Because of this inflexibility energy supplier is left with residual unhedged position which has to be closed at spot market. The residual shape risk is defined as a difference between spot and forward prices weighted by residual unhedged position which size depends on the shape of customers’ portfolio of a given retail energy supplier. We evaluated residual shape risk over the years 2014 - 2018 with a real portfolio of a leading natural gas retail supplier in the Czech Republic. The size of residual shape risk in our example corresponds approximately to 1 percent of profit margin of natural gas retail supplier.
Q47|Developing an Energy Poverty Index for Queensland|No abstract is available for this item.
Q47|Social-environmental-economic trade-offs associated with carbon-tax revenue recycling<BR>[Arbitrages économiques, sociaux et environnementaux pour le recyclage des revenus de la taxe carbone]|As carbon taxes gain traction and grow tighter in OECD countries, the question of their recycling becomes crucial for political acceptance. Considering the impact of the French carbon tax in the residential sector, we examine the trade-offs between fuel poverty alleviation, energy savings and economic leverage for two revenue-recycling options-as a lump-sum payment or as a subsidy for energy efficiency improvement, each restricted to low-income households-defined as those belonging to the first two quantiles of the income distribution. We do so using Res-IRF, a highly detailed energy-economy model that interacts housing features (single vs. multi-family, energy efficiency, heating fuel) with key household characteristics (tenancy status, income of both owners and occupants). We find that the energy efficiency subsidy recycling is superior to the lump-sum payment in all respects; it even fully offsets the regressive effect of the carbon tax from 2025 onwards. No recycling, however, effectively addresses fuel poverty in private, rented housing.
Q47|Policies to Overcome Barriers for Renewable Energy Distributed Generation: A Case Study of Utility Structure and Regulatory Regimes in Michigan|Because of its environmental damage and now often being the most expensive source for electricity production, coal use is declining throughout the United States. Michigan has no active coal mining and seemingly supportive legislation for distributed generation (DG) and renewable energy (RE) technologies. However, Michigan still derives approximately half of its power production from large centralized coal plants, despite the availability of much lower cost RE DG technologies. To understand this conundrum, this study reviews how Michigan investor owned utilities utilize their political power to perpetuate utility structures that work toward the financial interests of the utilities rather than the best interests of the state’s electricity consumers, including other firms and residents. Background is provided covering the concept of DG, the cost savings associated with DG, and utility regulatory regimes at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Recent case studies from specific utility strategies are provided in order to illustrate how Michigan utilities manipulate regulatory regimes via policy misinterpretation to deter or hinder the proliferation of DG in favor of maintaining the existing interests in centralized, fossil fuel-based electrical energy production. The results of this study demonstrate how DG proliferation is hindered by Michigan regulated utilities via the exercise of political power within existing legal and regulatory regimes. This highlights the need to think about how utilities may interpret and implement rules when designing energy legislation and policy to maximize the benefits for consumers and society. Policy recommendations and alternate strategies are provided to help enhance the role of energy policy to improve rather than limit the utilization of RE DG.
Q47|Power Industry Disruptors and Prospects of the Electricity Demand in the Greater Metro-Manila Area|The power industry is being severely disrupted globally and local industry stakeholders have every reason to be worried. The question is how stakeholder capital should henceforth be deployed to reduce the risk of stranded assets. This study is undertaken to assess the impact of power industry disruptors on the near-term prospect of the electricity demand in the most important submarket of the Philippine power market, the greater Metro-Manila area. The emphasis is on the impact of technology disruptors, especially of solar photovoltaic generation and storage, on top of and in conjunction with policy disruptors. Part One tackles firstly the risks to sustained economic and income growth which will, in turn, impact on the demand for electricity?the macro-economic risks, the global risks, and the policy risks; secondly the risks internal to the electricity industry itself?the technology disruptors especially coming from growing adoption of rooftop and mini-grid solar photovoltaic installations and battery storage. The challenge of solar distributed generation counsels a more sober outlook and a more inclusive portfolio diversification by centralized power generation capitalists. Part Two employs an error correction model to forecast the growth of aggregate and disaggregate (by customer types) demand in a distribution utility franchise, in this case, the Meralco franchise, over the next five years. This model can be adopted as benchmark and adapted by industry stakeholders especially other distribution utility franchises for their own forecasts which should inform the rate setting exercise between the distribution utilities and the regulator, the Energy Regulatory Commission.
Q47|Using Value-at-Risk for effective energy portfolio risk management|It is evident that the prediction of future variance through advanced GARCH type models is essential for an effective energy portfolio risk management. Still it fails to provide a clear view on the specific amount of capital that is at risk on behalf of the investor or any party directly affected by the price fluctuations of specific or multiple energy commodities. Thus, it is necessary for risk managers to make one further step, determining the most robust and effective approach that will enable them to precisely monitor and accurately estimate the portfolio’s Value-at-Risk, which by definition provides a good measure of the total actual amount at stake. Nevertheless, despite the variety of the variance models that have been developed and the relative VaR methodologies, the vast majority of the researchers conclude that there is no model or specific methodology that outperforms all the others. On the contrary, the best approach to minimize risk and accurately forecast the future potential losses is to adopt that specific methodology that will be able to take into consideration the particular characteristic features regarding the trade of energy products.
Q47|Modeling and forecasting carbon dioxide emissions in China using Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) models|This research uses annual time series data on CO2 emissions in China from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CO2 using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA approach. Diagnostic tests indicate that China CO2 emission data is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented best model is stable and hence acceptable for predicting carbon dioxide emissions in China. The results of the study reveal that CO2 emissions in China are likely to increase and thereby exposing China to a plethora of climate change related challenges. 4 main policy prescriptions have been put forward for consideration by the Chinese government.
Q47|Oil price volatility forecasts: What do investors need to know?|Contrary to the current practice that mainly considers stand-alone statistical loss functions, the aim of the paper is to assess oil price volatility forecasts based on objective-based evaluation criteria, given that different forecasting models may exhibit superior performance at different applications. To do so, we forecast implied and several intraday volatilities and we evaluate them based on financial decisions for which these forecasts are used. In this study we confine our interest on the use of such forecasts from financial investors. More specifically, we consider four well established trading strategies, which are based on volatility forecasts, namely (i) trading the implied volatility based on the implied volatility forecasts, (ii) trading implied volatility based on intraday volatility forecasts, (iii) trading straddles in the United States Oil Fund ETF and finally (iv) trading the United States Oil Fund ETF based on implied and intraday volatility forecasts. We evaluate the after-cost profitability of each forecasting model for 1-day up to 66-days ahead. Our results convincingly show that our forecasting framework is economically useful, since different models provide superior after-cost profits depending on the economic use of the volatility forecasts. Should investors evaluate the forecasting models based on statistical loss functions, then their financial decisions would be sub-optimal. Thus, we maintain that volatility forecasts should be evaluated based on their economic use, rather than statistical loss functions. Several robustness tests confirm these findings.
Q47|Day-ahead electricity price forecasting with emphasis on its volatility in Iran (GARCH combined with ARIMA models)|This paper provides a method to forecast day-ahead electricity prices based on autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedastic (GARCH) models. In the competitive power market environment, electricity price forecasting is an essential task for market participants. However, time series of electricity price has complex behavior such as nonlinearity, nonstationarity, and high volatility. ARIMA is suitable in forecasting, but it is not able to handle nonlinearity and volatility are existent in time series. Therefore, GARCH models are used to handle volatility in the in time series forecasting. The proposed method is computed using the daily electricity price data of Iran market for a five-year period from March 2013 to February 2018. The results reported in this paper illustrate the potential of the proposed ARMA-GARCH model and this combined model has been successfully applied to real prices in the Iranian power market.
Q47|Forecasting Realized Oil-Price Volatility: The Role of Financial Stress and Asymmetric Loss|We analyze the role of global and regional measures of financial stress in forecasting realized volatility of the oil market based on 5-minute intraday data covering the period of 4th January, 2000 until 26th May, 2017. In this regard, we use various variants of the Heterogenous Autoregressive (HAR) model of realized volatility (HAR-RV). Our main finding is that indexes of financial stress help to improve forecasting performance, with it being important to differentiate between regional sources of financial stress (United States, other advanced economies, emerging markets). Another key finding is that the shape of the forecaster loss function that one uses to evaluate forecasting performance plays an important role. More specifically, forecasters who attach a higher cost to an overprediction of realized volatility as compared to an underprediction of the same absolute size should pay particular attention to financial stress originating in the U.S. But, in case an underprediction is more costly than a comparable overprediction, then forecasters should closely monitor financial stress caused by developments in emerging-market economies. In sum, financial stress does have predictive value for realized oil-price volatility, with alternative types of investors benefitting from monitoring different regional sources of financial stress.
Q47|How do Housing Returns in Emerging Countries Respond to Oil Shocks? A MIDAS Touch|In this study, we utilize the recent oil shock data of Baumeister and Hamilton (2019) to analyze how housing returns in China, India and Russia respond to different oil shocks. Given the available data for the relevant variables, the MIDAS approach which helps circumvent aggregation problem in the estimation process is employed. We also extend the MIDAS framework to account for nonlinearities in the model. Expectedly, the housing returns of the countries considered respond differently to the variants of oil shocks. More specifically, we find that the housing returns of India and China which are net oil-importing countries do not seem to possess oil risk hedging characteristics albeit with the converse for Russia which is a major net oil-exporter. We also find that modeling with the MIDAS framework offers better predictability than other variants with uniform frequency.
Q47|Risk Aversion and the Predictability of Crude Oil Market Volatility: A Forecasting Experiment with Random Forests|We analyze the predictive power of time-varying risk aversion for the realized volatility of crude oil returns based on high-frequency data. While the popular linear heterogeneous autoregressive realized volatility (HAR-RV) model fails to recognize the predictive power of risk aversion over crude oil volatility, we find that risk aversion indeed improves forecast accuracy at all forecast horizons when we compute forecasts by means of random forests. The predictive power of risk aversion is robust to various covariates including realized skewness and realized kurtosis, various measures of jump intensity and leverage. The findings highlight the importance of accounting for nonlinearity in the data-generating process for forecast accuracy as well as the predictive power of non-cashflow factors over commodity-market uncertainty with significant implications for the pricing and forecasting in these markets.
Q47|Electricity price forecasting|Electricity price forecasting (EPF) is a branch of energy forecasting on the interface between econometrics/statistics and engineering, which focuses on predicting the spot and forward prices in wholesale electricity markets. Its beginnings can be traced back to the early 1990s, when power sector deregulation led to the introduction of competitive markets in the UK and Scandinavia. The changes quickly spread throughout Europe and North America, and nowadays - in many countries worldwide - electricity is traded under market rules using spot and derivative contracts. Over the last 25 years, a variety of methods and ideas have been tried for EPF, with varying degrees of success. In this chapter we first briefly discuss the forecasting horizons and the types of forecasts, then review the forecasting tools and the evaluation techniques used in the EPF literature.
Q47|Capital–energy substitutability in manufacturing sectors: methodological and policy implications|Abstract The debate on the capacity of the production system to adequate to a low-carbon economy is addressed by computing the capital–energy substitution elasticities $$(\sigma_{KE} )$$ ( σ KE ) for manufacturing sectors. We estimated the $$\sigma_{KE}$$ σ KE at aggregate level for the whole manufacturing industry and for 10 distinguished sectors for 21 OECD countries (1990–2008); average substitution values are also computed at sector level comparing alternative econometric methods and for separate sub-periods to trace the time dynamics. Such methodology allows assessing how different sectors could respond to the introduction of new (energy saving) technologies, as in terms of factor productivity and substitutability opportunities. This corresponds to a dynamic evaluation of the speed of reaction of each sector in improving its energy efficiency and the capacity to be on track in a sustainable transition. Such assessment also helps policy makers to individuate sectors deserving transition support according to the speed of adjustment of elasticity values over time.
Q47|Some reflections on policy mix in the EU low-carbon strategy|The EU low-carbon strategy includes different complementary policies. Potential interactions between instruments and timing of their implementation can influence the cost and likelihood of achieving the targets. We test the interactions between the three main pillars of the EU strategy through a dynamic CGE model (GDynEP) with a time horizon of 2050. Main results are: i) going for the unilateral EU carbon mitigation target without any complementary technological policy will produce large economic losses; ii) by investing in clean energy technologies (energy efficiency and renewable energy) with a carbon tax revenue recycling mechanism, these losses will substantially decrease; iii) when complementary clean energy technology policies are implemented, the optimal timing of binding targets changes; iv) the higher the contribution to clean energy technologies, the larger the economic gains in early adoption of challenging abatement targets.
Q47|Size matters: Estimation sample length and electricity price forecasting accuracy|Electricity price forecasting models are typically estimated via rolling windows, i.e. by using only the most recent observations. Nonetheless, the current literature does not provide much guidance on how to select the size of such windows. This paper shows that determining the appropriate window prior to estimation dramatically improves forecasting performances. In addition, it proposes a simple two-step approach to choose the best performing models and window sizes. The value of this methodology is illustrated by analyzing hourly datasets from two large power markets with a selection of ten different forecasting models. Incidentally, our empirical application reveals that simple models, such as the linear regression, can perform surprisingly well if estimated on extremely short samples.
Q47|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
Q47|Interventions to Mitigate Indoor Air Pollution: A Cost-Benefit Analysis|Globally, around three billion people depend upon solid fuels such as firewood, dry animal dung, crop residues, or coal, and use traditional stoves for cooking and heating purposes. This solid fuel combustion causes indoor air pollution (IAP) and severely impairs health and the environment, especially in developing countries like Pakistan. A number of alternative household energy strategies can be adopted to mitigate IAP, such as using liquid petroleum gas (LPG), natural gas, biogas, electric stoves, or improved cook stoves (ICS). In this study, we estimate the benefit-cost ratio, net present value, and internal rate of return of these interventions over a ten-year period in Pakistan. Annual costs included both fixed and operating costs, whereas benefits covered health, productivity gains, time savings, and fuel savings. We found that LPG has the highest benefit-cost ratio of 3.68, and ICS had the lowest benefit-cost ratio (0.58). Natural gas, electric stoves, and biogas had benefit-cost ratios of 2.87, 2.22, and 1.39 respectively. To maximize the return on investment in cleaner burning technology, the government of Pakistan should consider encouraging the adoption of LPG, piped natural gas, and electric stoves as a means to reduce IAP.
Q47|Efficient Forecasting of Electricity Spot Prices with Expert and LASSO Models|Recent electricity price forecasting (EPF) studies suggest that the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) leads to well performing models that are generally better than those obtained from other variable selection schemes. By conducting an empirical study involving datasets from two major power markets (Nord Pool and PJM Interconnection), three expert models, two multi-parameter regression (called baseline ) models and four variance stabilizing transformations combined with the seasonal component approach, we discuss the optimal way of implementing the LASSO. We show that using a complex baseline model with nearly 400 explanatory variables, a well chosen variance stabilizing transformation (asinh or N-PIT), and a procedure that recalibrates the LASSO regularization parameter once or twice a day indeed leads to significant accuracy gains compared to the typically considered EPF models. Moreover, by analyzing the structures of the best LASSO-estimated models, we identify the most important explanatory variables and thus provide guidelines to structuring better performing models.
Q47|A note on averaging day-ahead electricity price forecasts across calibration windows|We propose a novel concept in energy forecasting and show that averaging day-ahead electricity price forecasts of a predictive model across 28- to 728-day calibration windows yields better results than selecting only one 'optimal' window length. Even more significant accuracy gains can be achieved by averaging over a few, carefully selected windows.
Q47|Probabilistic electricity price forecasting with NARX networks: Combine point or probabilistic forecasts?|A recent electricity price forecasting (EPF) study has shown that the Seasonal Component Artificial Neural Network (SCANN) modeling framework, which consists of decomposing a series of spot prices into a trend-seasonal and a stochastic component, modeling them independently and then combining their forecasts, can yield more accurate point predictions than an approach in which the same non-linear autoregressive NARX-type neural network is calibrated to the prices themselves. Here, considering two novel extensions of the SCANN concept to probabilistic forecasting, we find that (i) efficiently calibrated NARX networks can outperform their autoregressive counterparts, even without combining forecasts from many runs, and that (ii) in terms of accuracy it is better to construct probabilistic forecasts directly from point predictions, however, if speed is a critical issue, running quantile regression on combined point forecasts (i.e., committee machines) may be an option worth considering. Moreover, we confirm an earlier observation that averaging probabilities outperforms averaging quantiles when combining predictive distributions in EPF.
Q47|Selection of Calibration Windows for Day-Ahead Electricity Price Forecasting|We conduct an extensive empirical study on the selection of calibration windows for day-ahead electricity price forecasting, which involves six year-long datasets from three major power markets and four autoregressive expert models fitted either to raw or transformed prices. Since the variability of prediction errors across windows of different lengths and across datasets can be substantial, selecting ex-ante one window is risky. Instead, we argue that averaging forecasts across different calibration windows is a robust alternative and introduce a new, well-performing weighting scheme for averaging these forecasts.
Q47|Understanding intraday electricity markets: Variable selection and very short-term price forecasting using LASSO|Using a unique set of prices from the German EPEX market we take a closer look at the fine structure of intraday markets for electricity with its continuous trading for individual load periods up to 30 minutes before delivery. We apply the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) to gain statistically sound insights on variable selection and provide recommendations for very short-term electricity price forecasting.
Q47|Uncertainty management and the dynamic adjustment of deep decarbonization pathways| Contrary to ‘static’ pathways that are defined once for all, this article deals with the need for policy makers to adopt a dynamic adaptive policy pathway for managing decarbonization over the period of implementation. When choosing a pathway as the most desirable option, it is important to keep in mind that each decarbonization option relies on the implementation of specific policies and instruments. Given structural, effectiveness, and timing uncertainties specific to each policy option, they may fail in delivering the expected outcomes in time. The possibility of diverging from an initial decarbonization trajectory to another one without incurring excessive costs should therefore be a strategic element in the design of an appropriate decarbonization strategy. The article relies on initial experiences in France and Germany on decarbonization planning and implementation to define elements for managing dynamic adjustment issues. Such an adaptive pathway strategy should combine long-lived incentives, like a pre-announced escalating carbon price, to form consistent expectations, as well as adaptive policies to improve overall robustness and resilience. We sketch key elements of a monitoring process based on an ex ante definition of leading indicators that should be assessed regularly and combined with signposts and trigger values at the subsector level. Policy relevance These research questions are of special interest and urgency following the Paris Agreement in 2015. It calls on all countries to monitor the implementation of their national contributions and review their ambition regularly. The regular revision of decarbonization pathways constitute a great research opportunity to gather experiences on decarbonization pathway implementation and on dynamic management issues to progress towards an operational dynamic adaptive policy pathway mechanism.
Q47|The influence of renewables on electricity price forecasting: a robust approach|In this paper a robust approach to modelling electricity spot prices is introduced. Differently from what has been recently done in the literature on electricity price forecasting, where the attention has been mainly drawn by the prediction of spikes, the focus of this contribution is on the robust estimation of nonlinear SETARX models (Self-Exciting Threshold Auto Regressive models with eXogenous regressors). In this way, parameters estimates are not, or very lightly, influenced by the presence of extreme observations and the large majority of prices, which are not spikes, could be better forecasted. A Monte Carlo study is carried out in order to select the best weighting function for Generalized M-estimators of SETAR processes. A robust procedure to select and estimate nonlinear processes for electricity prices is introduced, including robust tests for stationarity and nonlinearity and robust information criteria. The application of the procedure to the Italian electricity market reveals the forecasting superiority of the robust GM-estimator based on the polynomial weighting function respect to the non-robust Least Squares estimator. Finally, the introduction of external regressors in the robust estimation of SETARX processes contributes to the improvement of the forecasting ability of the model.
Q47|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. A multivariate co-integration analysis|This paper applied the ARDL bounds test approach and the VECM test technique to examine the long run relationship and direction of causality between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. Quarterly time series data was employed in this study covering a period between 1990 and 2014. Trade openness, capital and employment were included in the study to form a multivariate framework. The results established that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The VECM test technique confirmed a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. This implies that energy conservation policies may not harm the economic growth. The study, therefore, suggest that an appropriate and effective energy policy should be implemented in the long run.
Q47|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia
Q47|Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth in Turkey. An ARDL Bounds Testing Approach|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q47|The causal links between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q47|Per Capita Income, Consumption Patterns, and CO2 Emissions|This paper investigates the role of income-driven differences in consumption patterns in explaining and projecting energy demand and CO2 emissions. We develop and estimate a general-equilibrium model with non-homothetic preferences across a large set of countries and sectors, and trace embodied energy consumption through intermediate use and trade linkages. Consumption of energy goods is less than proportional to income in rich countries, and more income-elastic in low-income countries. While income effects are weaker for embodied energy, we find a significant negative relationship between income elasticity and CO2 intensity across all goods. These income-driven differences in consumption choices can partially explain the observed inverted-U relationship between income and emissions across countries, the so-called environmental Kuznet curve. Relative to standard models with homothetic preferences, simulations suggest that income growth leads to lower emissions in high-income countries and higher emissions in some low-income countries, with only modest reductions in world emissions on aggregate.
Q47|Heterogeneous Environmental and Grid Benefits from Rooftop Solar and the Costs of Inefficient Siting Decisions|Federal and state policies in the U.S. subsidize electricity generation from 1.4 million rooftop solar arrays because of pollution avoidance benefits and grid congestion relief. Yet because these benefits vary across the U.S. according to solar irradiance, technologies of electricity generators, and grid characteristics, the value of these benefits, and, consequently, the optimal subsidy, are largely unknown. Policy, therefore, is unlikely to have induced efficient solar investments. This paper (1) provides the first systematic, theoretically consistent, and empirically valid estimates of pollution damages avoidable by solar capacity in each U.S. zip code, (2) relates these external benefits to subsidy levels in each U.S. state, and (3) estimates the share of these benefits that spillover to other states. It also measures the energy value of capacity across the U.S. and the value of transmission congestion relief in California. Environmental benefits are shown to vary considerably across the U.S., and to largely spillover to neighboring states. Subsidy levels are essentially uncorrelated with environmental benefits contributing to installed capacity that sacrifices approximately $1 billion per year in environmental benefits. Energy value is estimated to vary less than environmental benefits, while California rooftop solar is shown to generate no congestion relief.
Q47|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
Q47|A set of state space models at an high disaggregation level to forecast Italian Industrial Production|Normally econometric models that forecast Italian Industrial Production Index do not exploit pieces of information already available at time t+1 for its own main industry groupings. A new strategy is sketched here using state space models and aggregating the estimates to obtain improved results. The endogenous variables available at time t+1 are Consumption of Electricity, Compressed Natural Gas distributed on its own net, Production of Compressed Natural Gas, Registration of commercial vehicles for Italy, Germany, France and Spain. Unfortunately for the other main industry groupings there are not available variables not prone to high revisions. A new strategy exploiting univariate or bivariate state space models for these time series is used. The issue coming out from holidays taken during Tuesday or Friday will be tackled. How to handle in-sample forecast with different aggregating weights will be considered for the period before the first of January of 2010 where is impossible to use the same structure for the base year 2010.
Q47|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia.
Q47|Investigating the linkage between Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth: The case of Turkey|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q47|The causal linkages between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q47|A Long-Run Estimation of Natural Gas Demand in Indonesian Manufacturing Sector: Computable General Equilibrium Model Approach|Domestic natural gas utilization in Indonesia suffers from lack of proper infrastructure and high transportation costs. The government might benefit from detailed estimation of demand to anticipate potentially fast-growing natural gas utilization in the future. Using Global Trade Analysis Project - Energy (GTAP-E) model simulation, this paper attempts to present a long-run estimation of natural gas demand in manufacturing sector for year 2025, 2030, and 2035. Chemical industry will remain the largest user of natural gas, followed by electricity, basic metal, and metal industry. To meet these demand, domestic production of natural gas should increase by 36.7 percent and 99.49 percent in 2025 and 2035, respectively. It brings us to the urge of massive investments in natural gas production and distribution.
Q47|Stretching the Duck's Neck: The effect of climate change on future electricity demand|This paper examines how climate change will affect both the level and timing of future electricity demand across Canada. Using an original dataset of hourly electricity demand across all Canadian provinces combined with household-level microdata on air conditioner ownership, we estimate temperature responsiveness including both the direct effect of temperature on demand for cooling services, as well as the indirect effect of increasing the stock of temperature-sensitive durables, such as air conditioners. We find only a small increase in total demand by end-century, although the result differs across provinces. The small aggregate result reflects the mitigating effect of rising temperature in a cold country such as Canada, whereby increases in electricity demand for air conditioning as summer temperatures rise is largely offset by reduced winter heating demand. Although we project limited change in overall electricity demand, we do project changes in the timing of demand, both seasonally and diurnally. In particular, we find seasonal peaks shift from winter to summer in most regions, as well as a large increase in intraday ramping requirements—the difference between minimum and maximum demand within a day—suggesting electricity systems of the future will place an even greater value on storage and flexibility.
Q47|Effective energy commodities’ risk management: Econometric modeling of price volatility|The current study emphasizes on the importance of the development of an effective price risk management strategy regarding energy products, as a result of the high volatility of that particular market. The study provides a thorough investigation of the energy price volatility, through the use of GARCH type model variations and the Markov-Switching GARCH methodology, as they are presented in the most representative academic researches. A large number of GARCH type models are exhibited together with the methodology and all the econometric procedures and tests that are necessary for developing a robust and precise forecasting model regarding energy price volatility. Nevertheless, the present research moves another step forward, in an attempt to cover also the probability of potential shifts in the unconditional variance of the models due to the effect of economic crises and several unexpected geopolitical events into the energy market prices.
Q47|Cambodia's Oil and Gas Activities and Future Outlooks|This article aims to reveal studies on Cambodia’s current activities in the oil and gas industry. The paper will be divided into three parts: 1) Distribution of oil and gas resources 2) Current Operations in the oil and gas industry and 3) Conclusion and discussion of the future of the industry.
Q47|Comparison between ideal and estimated pv parameters using evolutionary algorithms to save the economic costs|Micro grids are now emerging from lab modules sites into commercial markets, driven by technological improvements, falling costs, a proven track record, and growing recognition of their benefits. Their main contribution is to improve reliability and resilience of electrical grids, to manage the addition of distributed clean energy resources like wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) generation to reduce fossil fuel emissions, and to provide electricity in areas not served by centralized electrical infrastructure. In between, the popularity of photovoltaic panel is not deniable. In this paper, the ideal and practical electrical model of PV is being discussed. Due to significant role of the PV parameters, they are assessed by several heuristic methods and the results are compared. Hence an optimal method for parameter estimation is discussed that can be used in micro grid simulations to reach to an optimal quiescent working condition.
Q47|Point and density forecasts of oil returns: The role of geopolitical risks|We examine the dynamic relationship between oil prices and news-based indices of global geopolitical risks (GPRs), as well as a composite measure of the same for emerging economies, which we develop using Dynamic Model Averaging (DMA). In doing so, we train a number of linear and nonlinear probabilistic models to capture the ability of GPRs in forecasting oil returns. Our empirical findings show that global GPRs associated with wars is the most accurate in forecasting oil returns in the short-run, while composite GPRs emanating from the emerging markets, forecasts oil returns relatively better at medium- to longer-horizons. However, differences across the linear and nonlinear models incorporating information of GPRs are not necessarily markedly different. Given an observe negative relationship between GPRs and oil returns, density forecasts show that increases in GPRs from their initial lower levels, which would imply higher conditional oil returns initially, can predict the resulting increases in oil returns thereafter more accurately compared to the lower end of the conditional distribution, which in turn, corresponds to higher initial levels of GPRs.
Q47|Day-ahead electricity price forecasting with high-dimensional structures: Univariate vs. multivariate modeling frameworks|We conduct an extensive empirical study on short-term electricity price forecasting (EPF) to address the long-standing question if the optimal model structure for EPF is univariate or multivariate. We provide evidence that despite a minor edge in predictive performance overall, the multivariate modeling framework does not uniformly outperform the univariate one across all 12 considered datasets, seasons of the year or hours of the day, and at times is outperformed by the latter. This is an indication that combining advanced structures or the corresponding forecasts from both modeling approaches can bring a further improvement in forecasting accuracy. We show that this indeed can be the case, even for a simple averaging scheme involving only two models. Finally, we also analyze variable selection for the best performing high-dimensional lasso-type models, thus provide guidelines to structuring better performing forecasting model designs.
Q47|Oil Prices and Stock Markets: A Review of the Theory and Empirical Evidence|Do oil prices and stock markets move in tandem or in opposite directions? The complex and time varying relationship between oil prices and stock markets has caught the attention of the financial press, investors, policymakers, researchers, and the general public in recent years. In light of such attention, this paper reviews research on the oil price and stock market relationship. The majority of papers we survey study the impacts of oil markets on stock markets, whereas, little research in the reverse direction exists. Our review finds that the causal effects between oil and stock markets depend heavily on whether research is performed using aggregate stock market indices, sectorial indices, or firm-level data and whether stock markets operate in net oil-importing or net oil-exporting countries. Additionally, conclusions vary depending on whether studies use symmetric or asymmetric changes in the price of oil, or whether they focus on unexpected changes in oil prices. Finally, we find that most studies show oil price volatility transmits to stock market volatility, and that including measures of stock market performance improves forecasts of oil prices and oil price volatility. Several important avenues for further research are identified
Q47|Stochastic volatility, jumps and leverage in energy and stock markets: evidence from high frequency data|In this paper, we propose a model for futures returns that has the potential to provide both individual investors and firms who have positions in financial and energy commodity futures a valid tail risk management tool. In doing so, we also aim to explore the commonalities between these markets and the degree of financialization of energy commodities. Unlike most of the existing studies in energy derivative markets based on daily data, our empirical analysis makes use of high-frequency (tick-by-tick) data from the futures markets, aggregated to 10-minute intervals during the trading day. The intraday variation is then utilized to generate daily time series of prices, returns and realized variance. We estimate stochastic volatility models using a GMM approach based on the moment conditions of the Integrated Volatility derived from high frequency data. While existing empirical studies in energy markets embed either leverage or jumps in the futures return dynamics, we show that the introduction of both features improves the ability to forecast volatility as an indicator for risk for both the S&P500 and natural gas futures markets using both the RMSE and MAE criteria. Our analysis also shows that overall, the introduction of both leverage and jumps in the SVJL model provides the best forecast for risk in both a VaR and a CVaR sense for investors who have any position in natural gas futures regardless of their degree of risk aversion. In the S&P500 market, the SVJL model provides the most precise forecast of risk in a CVaR sense for risk-averse investors with any position in futures, regardless of their degree of risk aversion. Focusing on a firm's internal risk management, the introduction of both jumps and leverage in the SVJL model would benefit speculative firms who are short natural gas futures aiming at minimizing tail risk in a VaR sense, as well as speculative firms who are long S&P500 futures and use either VaR or CVaR as financial risk management criteria while wanting to minimize the opportunity cost of capital.
Q47|A Stochastic Latent Moment Model for Electricity Price Formation|The wide range of models needed to support the various short-term operations for electricity generation demonstrates the importance of accurate specifications for the uncertainty in market prices. This is becoming increasingly challenging, since electricity hourly price densities exhibit a variety of shapes, with their characteristic features changing substantially within the day and over time, and the in ux of renewable power, wind and solar in particular, has amplified these effects. A general-purpose, analytically tractable representation of the stochastic price formation process would have considerable value for operations control and trading, but existing empirical approaches or the application of standard density functions are unsatisfactory. We develop a general four parameter stochastic model for hourly prices, in which the four moments of the density function are dynamically estimated as latent state variables and furthermore modelled as functions of several plausible exogenous drivers. This provides a transparent and credible model that is suffciently exible to capture the shape-shifting effects, particularly with respect to the wind and solar output variations causing dynamic switches in the upside and downside risks. Extensive testing on German wholesale price data, benchmarked against quantile regression and other models in out-of-sample backtesting, validated the approach and its analytical appeal.
Q47|Per Capita Income, Consumption Patterns, and CO2 Emissions|This paper investigates the role of income-driven differences in consumption patterns in explaining and projecting energy demand and CO 2 emissions. We develop and estimate a general-equilibrium model with non-homothetic preferences across a large set of countries and sectors, and trace embodied energy consumption through intermediate use and trade linkages. Consumption of energy goods is less than proportional to income in rich countries, and more income-elastic in low-income countries. While income effects are weaker for embodied energy, we find a significant negative relationship between income elasticity and CO 2 intensity across all goods. These income-driven differences in consumption choices can partially explain the observed inverted-U relationship between income and emissions across countries, the so-called environmental Kuznet curve. Relative to standard models with homothetic preferences, simulations suggest that income growth leads to lower emissions in high-income countries and higher emissions in some low-income countries, with only modest reductions in world emissions on aggregate.
Q47|Forecasting GDP of OPEC: The role of oil price|In this paper, we examine the role of oil in GDP forecast of selected OPEC member countries using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag Mixed Data Sampling (ADL-MIDAS) approach. Both the in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts of this approach are evaluated and compared with some competing models namely AR(1), ARFIMA, ARIMA and ARDL models. We find that allowing for high frequency oil price data in the predictive model of GDP will enhance its forecast performance. The ADL-MIDAS is found to out-perform all the competing models for both the in-sample and out-of-sample forecast. In addition, we find that the higher the data frequency of oil price, the better the forecast performance. These results are robust to different data frequencies, multiple forecast horizons, and alternative proxies for oil price and measures of forecast performance.
Q47|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
Q47|Evolution of EROIs of Electricity Until 2050: Estimation Using the Input-Output Model THEMIS|The EROI –for Energy Returned On Invested– of an energy technology measures its ability to provide energy efficiently. Previous studies draw a link between the affluence of a society and the EROI of its energy system, and show that EROIs of renewables are lower than those of fossil fuels. Logically, concerns have been expressed that system-wide EROI may decrease during a renewable energy transition. First, I explain theoretically that the EROIs of renewables themselves could then decrease as energy-efficient fossil fuels would be replaced by less energy-efficient renewables in the supply-chain. Then, using the multiregional input-output model THEMIS, I estimate the evolution of EROIs and prices of electric technologies from 2010 to 2050 for different scenarios. Global EROI of electricity is predicted to go from 12 in 2010 to 11 in 2050 in a business-as-usual scenario, but down to 6 in a 100% renewable one. Finally, I study the economic implication of a declining EROI. An inverse relation between EROI and price is suggested empirically, even though theory shows that both quantities may move in the same direction.
Q47|Prediction is difficult, even when it's about the past: a hindcast experiment using Res-IRF, an integrated energy-economy model|Model-based projections of energy demand are hardly ever confronted with observations. This shortfall threatens the credibility policy-makers might attach to integrated energy-economy models. One reason for it is the lack of historical data against which to calibrate models, a prerequisite for attempting to replicate past trends. In this paper, we (i) assemble piecemeal historical data to reconstruct the energy performance of the residential building stock of 1984 in France; (ii) calibrate Res-IRF, a bottom-up model of residential energy demand in France, against these data and run it to 2012. In a preliminary simulation that only considers the data that were known at the beginning of the simulated period, we find that the model accurately predicts energy consumption per m² aggregated over all dwelling types, with a Mean Absolute Percentage Error below 1.5% and 85% of the variance explained. These figures reach 0.5% and 96% when we consider the best-fit of 1,920 scenarios covering the uncertainty surrounding the parameters of the initial year. Energy demand is unevenly well replicated across fuels, which reveals some limitations in the ability of the model to capture politically-driven trends such as the expansion of the natural-gas distribution network. The overall results however build confidence in the general accuracy of the Res-IRF model. We discuss the directions for data collection which would ease comparison between simulations and observations in future hindcast experiments.?
Q47|Residual Shape Risk on Czech Natural Gas Market|This paper introduces residual shape risk as a new subclass of energy commodity risk. Residual shape risk is caused by insufficient liquidity of energy forward market when retail energy supplier has to hedge his short sales by a non-exible standard baseload product available on wholesale market. Because of this inflexibility energy supplier is left with residual unhedged position which has to be closed at spot market. The residual shape risk is defined as a difference between spot and forward prices weighted by residual unhedged position which size depends on the shape of customers' portfolio of a given retail energy supplier. For empirical evaluation of residual shape risk we use a real portfolio of a leading natural gas retail supplier in the Czech Republic over the period 2016-2017. The size of residual shape risk in our example corresponds approximately to 1 percent of profit margin of natural gas retail supplier.
Q47|Valeurs carbone implicites des contributions nationales et trajectoires 2°C|Ce document de travail analyse le degré d'effort nécessaire à l'atteinte des objectifs INDC des 13 pays du Deep Decarbonization Pathway Project. L'objectif est d'évaluer et de comparer les degrés d'effort requis pour atteindre les objectifs INDC, entre les pays, d'une part et, d'autre part, au regard de trajectoires de plus long terme (2050) s'inscrivant dans l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C. Une méthodologie est mise en place pour transcrire les INDC en niveaux d'émissions de CO2 nettes du LULUCF. Le modèle POLES est ensuite utilisé pour révéler la valeur carbone implicite des INDC et permettre une comparabilité des objectifs nationaux entre eux. Enfin, la création d'un scénario INDCext permet d'appréhender les INDC au regard d'objectifs nationaux de plus long terme (2050) compatibles avec l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C.
Q47|Valeurs carbone implicites des contributions nationales et trajectoires 2°|Ce document de travail analyse le degré d'effort nécessaire à l'atteinte des objectifs INDC des 13 pays du Deep Decarbonization Pathway Project. L'objectif est d'évaluer et de comparer les degrés d'effort requis pour atteindre les objectifs INDC, entre les pays, d'une part et, d'autre part, au regard de trajectoires de plus long terme (2050) s'inscrivant dans l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C. Une méthodologie est mise en place pour transcrire les INDC en niveaux d'émissions de CO2 nettes du LULUCF. Le modèle POLES est ensuite utilisé pour révéler la valeur carbone implicite des INDC et permettre une comparabilité des objectifs nationaux entre eux. Enfin, la création d'un scénario INDCext permet d'appréhender les INDC au regard d'objectifs nationaux de plus long terme (2050) compatibles avec l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C.
Q47|Coherent Probabilistic Forecasts for Hierarchical Time Series|Many applications require forecasts for a hierarchy comprising a set of time series along with aggregates of subsets of these series. Although forecasts can be produced independently for each series in the hierarchy, typically this does not lead to coherent forecasts -- the property that forecasts add up appropriately across the hierarchy. State-of-the-art hierarchical forecasting methods usually reconcile the independently generated forecasts to satisfy the aggregation constraints. A fundamental limitation of prior research is that it has considered only the problem of forecasting the mean of each time series. We consider the situation where probabilistic forecasts are needed for each series in the hierarchy. We define forecast coherency in this setting, and propose an algorithm to compute predictive distributions for each series in the hierarchy. Our algorithm has the advantage of synthesizing information from different levels in the hierarchy through a sparse forecast combination and a probabilistic hierarchical aggregation. We evaluate the accuracy of our forecasting algorithm on both simulated data and large-scale electricity smart meter data. The results show consistent performance gains compared to state-of-the art methods.
Q47|The Impact of Oil Price Changes in a New Keynesian Model of the U.S. Economy|This paper studies the impact of a change in real oil prices on output and inflation in a New Keynesian model of the U.S. economy. The main goal of the analysis is to assess whether the cross-equation restrictions imposed by the model play a role in the transmission mechanism of exogenous oil price shocks. I find that the interactions between oil prices, domestic variables, and expectations implied by the New Keynesian framework generate responses that are quite modest, and that can depart from those emerging from a more unrestricted SVAR model. I also find that changes in oil prices that cannot be predicted based on the available information are, for the most part, exogenous to the U.S. economy. As such, augmenting the model to account for their possible endogeneity does not deliver substantially different results.
Q47|Forecasting oil prices|Accurate and economically useful oil price forecasts have gained significant importance over the last decade. The majority of the studies use information from the oil market fundamentals to generate oil price forecasts. Nevertheless, the extant literature has convincingly shown that oil prices are nowadays interconnected with the financial and commodities markets. Despite this, there is scarce evidence as to whether information from these markets could improve the forecasting accuracy of oil prices. Even more, there is limited knowledge whether high frequency data, given their rich information, could improve monthly oil prices. In this study we fill this void, employing a Mixed Data-Sampling (MIDAS) method using both oil market fundamentals and high frequency data from 15 financial and commodities assets. Our findings show that either the daily realized volatilities or daily returns of these assets significantly improve oil price forecasts relatively to the no-change forecast, as well as, relatively to the well-established models of the literature. These results hold true even when we consider tranquil and turbulent oil market conditions.
Q47|Economic and investment models for future grids: Final Report Project 3|This final Future Grid Cluster Project 3 report provides the deployment of key modelling results and the identification of strategic priorities for stakeholders. The purpose of the University of Queensland’s project has been to create “Economic and Investment Models for the Future Grid” and the primary objectives are as follows: Provide broad understanding of how the electricity sector will need to change in a carbon constrained world. This transition to a lower emissions intensive technology base will require significant structural and regulatory reform to the energy markets; Development of quantitative methods to analyse how price levels and volatility on the wholesale electricity market are affected by changes to the transmission network structure and technology deployment; Implement modelling platforms which can inform stakeholders in the energy market of how changing network structure and electricity generation technology effects electricity prices; Develop market simulation platforms for natural gas to gain a better understanding of how changing the fuel and technology mixes will affect the power delivery process; Develop a scenario planning tool set for future electricity market modelling. This deliverable 6 reports the final analysis and results for the Future Grid project for the University of Queensland (UQ). It is also intended to highlight the progress made on the following topics: Modelling the National Electricity Market under fuel price uncertainty and the shift from coal to gas as the primary fuel source in the generation fleet.The tools developed to model the east coast gas market are discussed in the previous deliverable report [1]. The planning and scenario development is discussed in brief below (section 2) and in [2-4]; Modelling the rise Renewable Energy with a proactive consumer base (“Prosumer”) and the effects on the electricity market. The details of proactive consumers affect electricity markets and the development of modelling techniques to accommodate this new consumer class are detailed more fully in [5, 2, 6, 4, 7]. This report summarises the work carried out by the Project 3 team and a separate report details the work of Future Grid Cluster and its interconnections and progress by other projects. The work carried out by this team is also summarized by several working papers available on the Energy Economics and Management Group website . Details of how this and other projects within the cluster have co-contributed to addressing the transition to a carbon constrained future is detailed in its final summary document.
Q47|The Shocks To Crude Oil Production. Nonparametric Stationarity Analysis For 20 OPEC And Non-OPEC Countries|The stochastic properties of crude oil production have been examined in the literature from different perspectives, with partly non-coincident conclusions depending on model specification. In this paper the nature of the shocks affecting crude oil production is analyzed for a panel of 20 OPEC and non-OPEC countries with reference to the period from January 1973 to December 2015. We rely on a novel nonparametric panel stationarity testing approach which offers the advantage of not requiring model specification of the trend functions for the series in the panel. Our analysis detects strong evidence of non-stationarity, both globally and group-wise for the OPEC and non-OPEC countries. A case-by-case study reveals that stationarity is rejected for 8 out of the countries under study (namely, Algeria, Canada, China, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Qatar, and the US) for which shocks would thus have permanent effects, with stationarity being relatively more frequent among OPEC members.
Q47|A Review of the Nexus Between Energy consumption and Economic growth in the Brics countries|The study investigates the long run relationship and causal relationship between energy consumption and economic growth in the Brics countries during the period 1990 – 2013. The Pedroni panel co-integration method is applied to analyse the co-integration relationship among the variables. The causality relationship among the variables is analysed using Pair-wise Granger-causality technique. The study’s results reveal that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, energy consumption, employment and trade openness in Brics countries. The research outcome further detected a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to energy consumption. This implies that the conservation policies that curb unnecessary loss in energy could be implemented in the Brics countries without adversely affecting economic growth.
Q47|Real Options Analysis of Renewable Energy Investment Scenarios in the Philippines|With the continuously rising energy demand and much dependence on imported fossil fuels, the Philippines is developing more sustainable sources of energy. Renewable energy seems to be a better alternative solution to meet the country’s energy supply and security concerns. Despite its huge potential, investment in renewable energy sources is challenged with competitive prices of fossil fuels, high start-up cost for renewables, and lower feed-in-tariff rates for renewables. To address these problems, this study aims to analyze energy investment scenarios in the Philippines using real options approach. This compares the attractiveness of investing in renewable energy over continue using coal for electricity generation under uncertainties in coal prices, investments cost, electricity prices, growth of investment in renewables, and imposing carbon tax for using fossil fuels.
Q47|Coal, Renewable, or Nuclear? A Real Options Approach to Energy Investments in the Philippines|The Philippines is making a significant step to become energy independent by developing more sustainable sources of energy. The country sees investments in renewable energy and nuclear energy as promising alternatives to address the country’s problem in energy security. This paper evaluates the comparative attractiveness of either investing in alternative energy sources or continuing the use of coal for electricity generation in the Philippines. Applying the real options approach under coal price uncertainty, this study analyzes investment values and optimal timing of switching technologies from coal to renewable or nuclear energy. It also examines how negative externality and the risk of nuclear accident affect investment decisions. Results identify possible welfare losses from waiting or delaying investing in alternative energy. Negative externality favors investment in nuclear energy over coal, whereas the risk of nuclear accident favors investment in renewable energy.
Q47|Explaining Electricity Forward Premiums - Evidence for the Weather Uncertainty Effect|With the increasing share of volatile renewable energies, weather prediction becomes more important to electricity markets. The weather-driven uncertainty of renewable forecast errors could have price increasing impacts. This research sets up an analytic model to show that the day-ahead optimal bidding under uncertain renewable production is below the expected production and thus price increasing. In a second step, the price increasing effect on forward premiums by specific weather types and their renewable production uncertainty is proved via empirical methods. Weather types are identified in which renewable production is harder to predict. The findings connect weather dependent renewable forecast uncertainty to forward premiums and support the consideration of weather types in price forecasting models.
Q47|Computing Coal Dependent Employment Estimates|This document presents the basis for estimating coal-dependent employment in a reference region, then establishing a weighting factor for each industry that can be used to provide a quantitative estimate of the existing employment or employment change in a county that can be attributed to existing or change in coal employment. The Matlab function is provided. Although coal is the industry of interest in this document, any other industry could be targeted for similar study.
Q47|“Chaos” In Energy And Commodity Markets: A Controversial Matter|We test whether the futures prices of some commodity and en- ergy markets are determined by stochastic rules or exhibit nonlinear deterministic endogenous uctuations. As for the methodologies, we use the maximal Lyapunov exponents (MLE) and a determinism test, both based on the reconstruction of the phase space of a dynamical sys- tem underlying a scalar time series. In particular, employing a recent methodology, we estimate a coecient that describes the determin- ism rate of the analyzed time series. The empirical evidence suggests that commodity and energy futures prices are the measured footprint of a nonlinear deterministic, rather than a stochastic, system.
Q47|The Importance of Integrating Quantitative Research Methods to Understand Commodity Business Finance|There is significant variety in the range of quantitative methods used to analyse problems in commodity business finance. This study focuses on how these methods can be to aid the understanding of how crude oil spot and futures markets behave during major shock events that are characterised by high levels of uncertainty and risk to businesses that rely on commodities to function. This paper uses the context of the relationships and behaviour of spot and futures prices of major oil benchmarks such as Brent crude oil (the European crude oil benchmark), the West Texas Intermediate (the US benchmark) and the Dubai crude oil (the Middle East benchmark). The research methodologies under consideration are of a great value for businesses, and in particular to practitioners, as they help them by offering in depth analysis of oil price behaviour. This aids decision making for example on topics such as strategic investment and sourcing of raw materials. Through integrating different methodologies, this paper also contributes towards the operationalisation of behavioural finance theory. This relatively new theory considers that the markets are not as predictable as once thought and decisions are really made based on how we, as humans, make decisions. The use of multiple methodologies contributes to capture the variance that occurs across the market under behavioural finance theory.
Q47|The Efficiency Analysis of Crude Oil Spot and Futures Prices: A Moving Window Approach|This paper explores the efficiency of oil price behaviour during times of crisis using traditional variance-ratio tests in combination with more recent innovations such as wild bootstrapping and simulation methods. Three main oil indices were chosen: Brent, WTI and Dubai crude, in order to consider efficiency across the different oil price regimes during times of crisis. Daily data from January 1986 to September 2016 was used, and moving windows of 2, 5 and 10 years were integrated into the methodologies applied. The results were mixed across the data series and the windows showing that the different prices were not efficient over the same periods. This has implications for how we view price efficiency in oil markets and consequent implications for market regulations and investor decision making during times of crisis.
Q47|Can the US shale revolution be duplicated in continental Europe?: An economic analysis of European shale gas resources|Over the past decade, the rapid increase in shale gas and shale oil production in the United States has profoundly changed energy markets in North America, and has led to a significant decrease in American natural gas prices. The possible existence of large shale deposits in continental Europe, mainly in France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, has fostered speculation on whether the U.S. shale revolution could be duplicated in Europe. However, a number of uncertainties, notably geological, technological, regulatory, and relating to public acceptance make this possibility unclear. We present a techno-economic model of shale gas production amenable to direct estimation on historical production data to analyze the main determinants of the profitability of shale wells and plays. We contribute an in-depth analysis of an extensive production dataset covering 40,000 wells and accounting for nearly 90% of shale gas production in the six main plays of the continental United States from 2004 to 2014. We combine this analysis with a discussion of the main differences between the American and European contexts to calibrate our model and conduct Monte-Carlo simulations. This enables us to estimate the distribution of breakeven prices for shale gas extraction in continental Europe. We find a median gross breakeven price before taxes and royalties of $10.1 per MMBtu. This would make extraction unprofitable in Europe in the current natural gas price environment, with
Q47|A regime-switching stochastic volatility model for forecasting electricity prices|In a recent review paper, Weron (2014) pinpoints several crucial challenges outstanding in the area of electricity price forecasting. This research attempts to address all of them by i) showing the importance of considering fundamental price drivers in modeling, ii) developing new techniques for probabilistic (i.e. interval or density) forecasting of electricity prices, iii) introducing an universal technique for model comparison. We propose new regime-switching stochastic volatility model with three regimes (negative jump, normal price, positive jump (spike)) where the transition matrix depends on explanatory variables. Bayesian inference is explored in order to obtain predictive densities. The main focus of the paper is on shorttime density forecasting in Nord Pool intraday market. We show that the proposed model outperforms several benchmark models at this task.
Q47|Residual load, renewable surplus generation and storage requirements in Germany|I examine the effects of increasing amounts of fluctuating renewable energy on residual load, which is defined as the difference between actual power demand and the feed-in of non-dispatchable and inflexible generators. I draw on policy-relevant scenarios for Germany and make use of extensive sensitivity analyses. Whereas yearly renewable surplus energy is low in most scenarios analyzed, peak surplus power can become very high. Decreasing thermal must-run requirements and increasing biomass flexibility substantially reduce surpluses. I use an optimization model to determine the storage capacities required for taking up renewable surpluses. Allowing curtailment of 1% of the yearly feed-in of non-dispatchable renewables would render storage investments largely obsolete until 2032 under the assumption of a flexible power system. Further restrictions of curtailment as well as lower system flexibility strongly increase storage requirements. By 2050, at least 10GW of storage are required for surplus integration, of which a sizeable share is seasonal storage. Results suggest that policy makers should work toward avoiding surplus generation, in particular by decreasing the must-run of thermal generators. Concerns about surpluses should not be regarded as an obstacle to further renewable expansion. The findings are also relevant for other countries that shift toward fluctuating renewables.
Q47|Residual Load, Renewable Surplus Generation and Storage Requirements in Germany|I examine the effects of increasing amounts of fluctuating renewable energy on residual load, which is defined as the difference between actual power demand and the feed-in of non-dispatchable and inflexible generators. I draw on policy-relevant scenarios for Germany and make use of extensive sensitivity analyses. Whereas yearly renewable surplus energy is low in most scenarios analyzed, peak surplus power can become very high. Decreasing thermal must-run requirements and increasing biomass flexibility substantially reduce surpluses. I use an optimization model to determine the storage capacities required for taking up renewable surpluses. Allowing curtailment of 1% of the yearly feed-in of non-dispatchable renewables would render storage investments largely obsolete until 2032 under the assumption of a flexible power system. Further restrictions of curtailment as well as lower system flexibility strongly increase storage requirements. By 2050, at least 10 GW of storage are required for surplus integration, of which a sizeable share is seasonal storage. Results suggest that policy makers should work toward avoiding surplus generation, in particular by decreasing the must-run of thermal generators. Concerns about surpluses should not be regarded as an obstacle to further renewable expansion. The findings are also relevant for other countries that shift toward fluctuating renewables.
