Q48|Defining, measuring and ranking energy vulnerability|Vulnerability is reaching an increasing attention from both academia, international community and industry, being detected as a pillar of the development agenda. If the formal definition of overall vulnerability and resilience is still flawed in the economic literature, the measurement and mainstreaming of outlying characteristics and sound policies for energy vulnerability results almost uncovered, often overlapping with other energy issues. Energy vulnerability also results poorly enforced by regulatory, governmental, and legislative systems. After reviewing and furnishing a univocal ambient merging the multiple interpretations on such concepts, this work: i) defines energy vulnerability; ii) builds a composite indicator to measure energy vulnerability; and iii) analyzes and ranks OECD and non-OECD countries in terms of energy vulnerability. The regulatory framework, SDGs and the development agenda are examined, selected indicators from the WB’s WDI are analyzed. The indicator is weighted by a multivariate analysis and its robustness is checked through different techniques.
Q48|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and research actors survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of the modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyzes the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration, and main topics studied. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues, and social aspects. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. There is a lack of recurrence, though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon-emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policymakers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q48|Policies to Overcome Barriers for Renewable Energy Distributed Generation: A Case Study of Utility Structure and Regulatory Regimes in Michigan|Because of its environmental damage and now often being the most expensive source for electricity production, coal use is declining throughout the United States. Michigan has no active coal mining and seemingly supportive legislation for distributed generation (DG) and renewable energy (RE) technologies. However, Michigan still derives approximately half of its power production from large centralized coal plants, despite the availability of much lower cost RE DG technologies. To understand this conundrum, this study reviews how Michigan investor owned utilities utilize their political power to perpetuate utility structures that work toward the financial interests of the utilities rather than the best interests of the state’s electricity consumers, including other firms and residents. Background is provided covering the concept of DG, the cost savings associated with DG, and utility regulatory regimes at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Recent case studies from specific utility strategies are provided in order to illustrate how Michigan utilities manipulate regulatory regimes via policy misinterpretation to deter or hinder the proliferation of DG in favor of maintaining the existing interests in centralized, fossil fuel-based electrical energy production. The results of this study demonstrate how DG proliferation is hindered by Michigan regulated utilities via the exercise of political power within existing legal and regulatory regimes. This highlights the need to think about how utilities may interpret and implement rules when designing energy legislation and policy to maximize the benefits for consumers and society. Policy recommendations and alternate strategies are provided to help enhance the role of energy policy to improve rather than limit the utilization of RE DG.
Q48|New Evidence on the Relationship Between Crude Oil Consumption and Economic Growth in the US: A Quantile Causality and Cointegration Approach|Abstract This paper investigates the long-run and short-run relationship between WTI crude oil consumption and economic growth, covering the US economy for the period from 1955Q1 to 2016Q4. The Quantile ARDL approach developed by Cho et al. (2015) is applied to examine the long-run cointegrating relationship between the variables. Additionally, a quantile Granger causality test developed by Troster (2017) is also applied to examine the causal association between crude oil consumption and economic growth. The empirical evidence underscores the presence of nonlinearities and locational asymmetries. The growth hypothesis holds for the smallest quantiles, suggesting a unidirectional causality relationship running from oil consumption to economic growth. A feedback effect between oil consumption and economic growth is found for the medium quantiles. This empirical evidence has concrete implications for economists and energy policy makers.
Q48|Modeling transfer profits as externalities in a cooperative game-theoretic model of natural gas networks|Existing cooperative game theoretic studies of bargaining power in gas pipeline systems are based on the so called characteristic function form (CFF). This approach is potentially misleading if some pipelines fall under regulated third party access (TPA). TPA, which is by now the norm in the EU, obliges the owner of a pipeline to transport gas for others, provided they pay a regulated transport fee. From a game theoretic perspective, this institutional setting creates so called “externalities”, the description of which requires partition function form (PFF) games. In this paper we propose a method to compute payoffs, reflecting the power structure, for a pipeline system with regulated TPA. The method is based on an iterative flow mechanism to determine gas flows and transport fees for individual players and uses the recursive core and the minimal claim function to convert the PPF game back into a CFF game, which can be solved by standard methods. We illustrate the approach with a simple stylized numerical example of the gas network in Central Eastern Europe with a focus on Ukraine's power index as a major transit country.
Q48|Prices vs. percentages: Use of tradable green certificates as an instrument of greenhouse gas mitigation|The paper analyzes the problem of achieving a target path of emission reductions in the electricity sector, using a scheme of tradable green certificates (TGC). There are two types of generation, renewable and fossil. The latter causes the emissions. The paper also examines effects from emission regulation on construction of new renewable generation capacity. Outcomes are compared with an emission fee and a subsidy. The analytical results are simulated with a numerical model and social surplus are calculated for the different instruments. Two versions of the percentage requirement are devised for the TGC scheme. Results show that the target path of emission reductions is achievable, but incentives for new renewable generation capacity will be sub-optimal, regardless of the version of the percentage requirement. The TGC scheme is neither the most accurate nor the most cost-efficient, instrument but it does lead to a smaller reduction of social surplus than a subsidy.
Q48|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the firms' abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A firm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the first best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet effect since the low-cost firms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when firms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We find evidence that the firms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
Q48|Optimal policies for electromobility: Joint assessment of transport and electricity distribution costs in Norway|We observe a rapidly rising share of the passenger car fleet becoming electric as policy makers keep making the purchase and use of electric vehicles (EVs) more favorable in the pursuit of reducing pollution. The electrification of transport will make the transport and energy systems more intertwined: EV-friendly transport policies increase the demand for power, thus challenging the distribution grid’s capacity, while electricity policies immediately impact on the generalized costs of driving EVs. This paper develops a stylized economic model for passenger transport in the greater Oslo area where the agents’ endogenous choice of car ownership, transport pattern and EV home charging is determined jointly in equilibrium. If enough EV-owning agents charge during power peak hours, costly grid expansions may be needed. We examine how the distribution grid company can respond in order to mitigate these costs with different pricing schemes and how this in turn affects the transport equilibrium. We find that applying peak tariffs for the grid will help strike a better balance between investment costs and EV-owners’ disutility of charging during off-peak hours.
Q48|Intermittency and Pricing Flexibility in Electricity Markets|How can increasing intermittent power generation in the Swedish electricity system be managed in a more market-oriented and cost-efficient way? We argue that market mechanisms are the most natural means for obtaining the needed flexibility in electricity systems. We believe that a complete ex post assessment of the Swedish wholesale and balancing market functioning is crucial to determine the effectiveness of these markets in attaining their major objectives. This report identifies knowledge gaps and suggests the most relevant ex post research directions and questions for analysing the Swedish electricity markets in relation to intermittency and pricing flexibility.
Q48|Decarbonization And Energy Policy Instruments In The Eu: Does Carbon Pricing Prevail?|The issue of instrument choice is vital for climate policy. Carbon pricing is used next to a range of traditional energy taxes and renewable energy policies such as feed-in tariffs and minimal renewable generation targets. Several countries introduced carbon taxes alongside existing energy taxes such as excise duties on vehicle fuels. Since 2005, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) has attached a direct price to the GHG emissions of ETS companies. The combination of multiple instruments and explicit and indirect carbon price signals created a complex and frequently changing institutional landscape that blurs the contribution of each policy instrument. Can the decarbonization of the European economy be attributed to carbon price instruments or to renewable energy policies together with other fiscal instruments? This paper clarifies the relative impact of explicit carbon price instruments (carbon taxes and EU ETS) compared to other instruments, namely renewable energy policies and indirect carbon price signals (general energy taxes). The methodology is based on the calculation of the implicit carbon price in existing fiscal systems. On the basis of panel data for 30 European countries 1995–2016, several fixed-effect regression estimations were performed. The results indicate a greater but decreasing impact of price instruments on carbon intensity compared to renewable energy policies and a greater but decreasing relative impact of indirect price signals compared to explicit ones.
Q48|Externalities, entry bias and optimal subsidy policy in oligopoly|This article analyses alternative subsidy schemes and long-run entry bias in a new industry that creates positive environmental externalities. It demonstrates that per unit subsidy scheme, despite attracting fewer firms, results in higher industry output and economic surplus in the equilibrium compared to the expenditure equivalent lump-sum subsidy scheme. However, the later leads to higher total surplus, unless spill-over externalities is sufficiently small. Further, free entry equilibrium number of firms may be excessive or insufficient. The first best equilibrium outcome can be implemented through a unique combination of per unit subsidy and lump sum subsidy/tax, which involves positive government expenditure.
Q48|How much do households repond to electricity prices? Evidence from Australia and abroad|In this paper we review studies to understand how much households change their electricity consumption when there is a price change. We are particularly focussed on finding results from econometric studies that estimate elasticities of demand. Many studies find residential households demonstrate responsiveness to price, with long term and short run elasticities behaving as economic theory would suggest. For instance, the elasticities are negative which means that as price increases, consumption decreases; long run elasticities are larger than shorter run elasticities which indicates that households can respond over time through investment in more energy efficient appliances; and very short run elasticities exist - while very short run elasticities are small, household responsiveness seems to increase when paired with technology. Long run elasticities range from -0.75 to -0.3 and short run elasticities range from -0.47 to -0.026. The major gaps in research from the empirical economics literature are how low income and vulnerable Australian households could be affected by price changes and how Australians respond to within-day variation in prices.
Q48|The equivalence of emission tax with tax-revenue refund and emission intensity regulation|This study examines policies balancing emissions reduction and promotion of consumption. We show the equivalence of emission intensity regulation coupled with tradable emission permits and the combination of an emission tax and refunding of the tax revenue to consumers.
Q48|Financing a Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff with a Tax on Carbon Dioxide Emissions: A Dynamic Multi-Sector General Equilibrium Analysis for Portugal|Renewable energy production subsidies alleviate the pressure on electricity prices associated with carbon and energy pricing policies in the process of decarbonization and electrification of the Portuguese economy. Our simulation results show that a feed in tariffs financed by a carbon tax leads to adverse macroeconomic as well as adverse and regressive distributional welfare effects. On the flip side, however, we show that use of the carbon tax revenues to finance a feed in tariff is an improvement over the simple carbon tax case along all the relevant policy dimensions. The feed in tariff mechanism when added to the carbon tax leads to better environmental outcomes at lower costs both in terms of the economic and social justice implications. The policy implications are clear. First, because of its adverse economic and distributional effects a carbon tax should not be used in isolation. The use of the revenues to finance a feed in tariff dominates the simple carbon tax case in all dimensions. Second, the search for the appropriate recycling mechanisms in addition to feed in tariffs is an issue as relevant as the carbon tax itself as it pertains to the potential reversal of the adverse effects of such a tax.
Q48|Regulated Early Closures of Coal-Fired Power Plants and Tougher Energy Taxation on Electricity Production: Synergy or Rivalry?|This article examines the economic, budgetary, distributional and environmental impacts of the interaction between regulated early closure of coal-fired power plants and new energy taxation rules on fossil fuel-operated power plants using a multi-sector and multi-household dynamic general equilibrium model of the Portuguese economy. Simulation results show first that regulated early closures will lead to meaningful reductions in emissions. They will also induce significant detrimental macroeconomic and distributional effects. Second, when the new energy taxation rules are applied to the coal-operated power plants no significant environmental gains or macroeconomic or distributional losses are observed in addition to what already induced by the forced closures. Only the public sector seems to benefit in the form of additional tax revenues. A different situation occurs, however, if the operators of the coal-fired power plants react to the new energy taxes levied on them by unilaterally deciding to decommission their installations. In this case, although the environmental effects will improve, the adverse macroeconomic and distributional effects will substantially deteriorate. Noticeably, the adverse budgetary effects will also be substantially larger. Overall, we find no synergies between the two policies and, actually, the potential for the opposite to be true.
Q48|Picking Our Environmental Battles: Removal of Harmful Subsidies or Carbon Taxation?|In this paper, we compare the effects of removing harmful fossil fuel subsidies with the replacement of the energy taxation by a carbon tax in Portugal. Since energy taxes focus on the energy content of the different energy products eliminating these provisions only brings their prices in line with their energy content. On the other hand, replacing the energy tax system with a tax on the emissions content of the energy products aligns the fossil fuel prices with their emissions content. We show that while replacing the energy with a carbon tax is a policy of a magnitude about eight times as large as the removal of the harmful subsidies, the effects of emissions are twenty times larger and the adverse economic and distributional effects only about twice as large. Accordingly, replacing the energy tax with a carbon tax is a much more cost-effective way of reducing emissions. This may suggest that focusing on the removal of harmful fossil fuel subsidies may be an environmental red herring.
Q48|Financing Future Feed-in Tariffs from Currently Installed RES-E Generating Capacity|In this paper, we address the issue of how to finance the excess costs of electricity generation from currently installed renewable energy production capacity. We do so using a multi-sector and multi-household dynamic computable general equilibrium model of the Portuguese economy. We consider three issues: the effects of the existence of these excess-costs; the effects of annuitizing such costs; and, the effects of different financing mechanisms. Following the logic of the tariff deficit, we recommend the annuitizing of these excess costs. This strategy can be justified on distributional grounds. We also find that financing through carbon taxation is a better alternative than passing these excess costs through to electricity consumers in the form of higher future electricity prices. This is consistent with the idea that renewable electricity production is not an issue pertaining exclusively to the electricity market but rather a part of the national quest for decarbonization. Finally, we show that there is little reason from an environmental perspective to extend such preferential financing mechanisms to any future renewable capacity installation.
Q48|Why Has China Overinvested in Coal Power?|Since 2005, the Chinese government has engaged in an ambitious effort to move China’s energy system away from coal and towards more environmentally friendly sources of energy. However, China’s investment in coal power has accelerated sharply in recent years, raising concerns of massive overcapacity and undermining the central policy goal of promoting cleaner energy. In this paper, we ask why China engaged in such a pronounced investment boom in coal power in the mid-2010s. We find the protective rules under which China’s coal power industry has historically operated have made excessive investment extremely likely unless the central government serves as a “gatekeeper,” slowing and limiting investment in the face of incentives for socially excessive entry. When coal-power project approval authority was decentralized from the central government to local governments at the end of 2014, the gate was lifted and approval time considerably shortened, allowing investment to flood into the market. We construct a simple economic model that elucidates the effects of key policies on coal power investment, and examine the model’s predictions using coal-power project approval records from 2013 to 2016. We find the approval rate of coal power is about 3 times higher when the approval authority is decentralized, and provinces with larger coal industries tend to approve more coal power. We estimate that local coal production accounts for an additional 54GW of approved coal power in 2015 (other things equal), which is about 1/4 of total approved capacity in that year.
Q48|Experimental Evidence on the Effect of Information and Pricing on Residential Electricity Consumption|This study examines a field experiment in Texas that includes pricing and informational interventions to encourage energy conservation during summer peak load days when the social cost of generation is the highest. We estimate that our critical peak pricing intervention reduces electricity consumption by 14%. Using unique high frequency appliance-level data, we can attribute 74% of this response to air conditioning. In contrast, we find minimal response to active information provision and conservation appeals. A complementary experimental program also lowers nighttime prices during the off-peak season, providing the first evidence of electric vehicle loadshifting in response to price.
Q48|Costs of Energy Efficiency Mandates Can Reverse the Sign of Rebound|Improvements in energy efficiency can reduce costs of consuming services from cars and appliances and result in positive rebound that offsets part of the direct energy reduction. Our analytical general equilibrium model decomposes rebound into direct and indirect effects. A costless technology shock has positive rebound as in prior literature, but a pre-existing energy efficiency standard can negate direct energy savings from that shock. For increased stringency of energy efficiency standards, however, we show how income effects reduce energy use for both services and other goods. We show exactly when those increased costs imply negative total rebound.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|What Does an Electric Vehicle Replace?|The emissions reductions from the adoption of a new transportation technology depend on the emissions from the new technology relative to those from the displaced technology. We evaluate the emissions reductions from electric vehicles (EVs) by identifying which vehicles would have been purchased had EVs not been available. We do so by estimating a random coefficients discrete choice model of new vehicle demand and simulating counterfactual sales with EVs no longer subsidized or removed from the new vehicle market. Our results suggest that vehicles that EVs replace are relatively fuel-efficient: EVs replace gasoline vehicles with an average fuel economy of 4.2 mpg above the fleet-wide average and 12 percent of them replace hybrid vehicles. Federal income tax credits resulted in a 29 percent increase in EV sales, but 70 percent of the credits were obtained by households that would have bought an EV without the credits. By simulating alternative subsidy designs, we demonstrate the distributional and efficiency outcomes across different policy alternatives.
Q48|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy|There is widespread agreement among economists – and a diverse set of other policy analysts – that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap and trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Estimating the Costs and Benefits of Fuel-Economy Standards|Fuel-economy standards for new vehicles are a primary policy instrument in many countries to reduce the carbon footprint of the transportation sector. These standards have many channels of costs and benefit, impacting sales, composition, vehicle attributes, miles traveled and externalities in the new-car fleet, as well as the composition and size of the used fleet. We develop a tractable analytical framework to examine the welfare effects of fuel-economy standards, and apply it to the recent government proposal to roll back fuel-economy standards. We find that our combined, multi-market vehicle choice model implies that the proposal would increase the size of the vehicle fleet over time, and also generates smaller welfare gains than models with a less rich structure of the vehicle market, such as the one used in the analysis associated with the 2018 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) announcement. The disparities across the two models appear to result from the absence of feedback effects in the NPRM analysis. We stress the importance of instead using a multi-market vehicle choice model to provide the most accurate predictions of costs and benefits. We also derive bounds that can serve as a check on the theoretical consistency of such analyses, and that offer insights into the magnitudes of potential errors resulting from imperfect multi-market integration.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the ﬁrms’ abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A ﬁrm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the ﬁrst best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet eﬀect since the low-cost ﬁrms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when ﬁrms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We ﬁnd evidence that the ﬁrms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
Q48|Impact of social comparison on DSM in Poland|Poland’s energy strategy prioritizes long-term energy security, energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The country’s progress toward sustainable development requires in-depth analyses of possible solutions. In our study we investigate consumers’ preferences for Demand Side Management programs for electricity usage in Poland. We apply a discrete Choice Experiment framework for various electricity contracts implying the external control of electricity usage. The main objective of the study is to investigate the value of potential disutility of Polish households from the energy management. Additionally, we elaborate on the effect of social comparison between households’ electricity use on the acceptance of new electricity contracts. The results suggest that people require substantial compensations to accept the external control of electricity in extreme cases and in weekdays during certain hours. Turning to the social comparison, we were expecting that people with a higher electricity usage per person in a household will require lower compensations, however we observe the opposite result. The respondents who were informed that they use more electricity than an average person in his administrative district seem to feel higher discomfort from the external electricity control. This suggest that the effect of social comparison might be overbalanced by the differences in perceived utility from electricity usage.
Q48|The rebound effect and its representation in energy and climate models|In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and common practice of energy and climate modeling vis-à-vis the rebound literature, in particular regarding how macroeconomic energy and climate models quantify and include energy and greenhouse gas rebound effects. First, we focus on rebound effects in models of costless energy efficiency improvement that hold other attributes constant (zero-cost breakthrough), and an energy efficiency policy that may be bundled with other product changes that affect energy use (policy-induced efficiency improvement) (Gillingham et al. 2015). Second, we examine macroeconomic studies focusing on energy efficiency both in industry and in private households. Third, we go through a general theoretical revision from micro- to macroeconomic levels (the aggregation level) to include a review of the so-called meso-level studies (focused on the analysis of the production side). From 118 recent studies along the aggregation level, out of which 25 compute rebound calculations, we find that the average energy rebound effect is 58% with a standard deviation of 58%, and when we include green house gas rebound calculations, the magnitude is of the order of 43% with a standard deviation of 55%. Finally, we argue that the rebound effect is a phenomenon that requires a sound understanding of the complex interactions from different dimensions (e.g. aggregation level, heterogeneity, climate, energy conservation and economic growth), and we provide some ideas and motivations for future research.
Q48|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q48|CO2-orientierte Bepreisung der Energieträger - Handlungsoptionen, Kompensationsmöglichkeiten und ihre rechtlichen Rahmenbedingungen|Der klimapolitische Handlungsdruck hat eine Instrumentendiskussion entfacht. So plausibel die Forderung nach CO2-Bepreisung der Energieträger zu sein scheint, so heterogen ist das Spektrum möglicher Regelungsansätze. Die Vielzahl wirtschaftspolitischer Empfehlungen hat den Rechtsrahmen, in dem sich die Instrumentendiskussion bewegt, bislang kaum in den Blick genommen. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert Möglichkeiten und Grenzen der Instrumente nach Maßgabe der steuer-, haushalts-, finanzverfassungs- und europarechtlichen Vorgaben. Es zeigt sich, dass die aktuell diskutierten Reformschritte zur CO2-Bepreisung überwiegend im Einklang mit den Rechtsrahmen ausgestaltet werden könnten. Bei den Kompensationsmaßnahmen verengen sich die zur Verfügung stehenden Optionen unter rechtlichen und praktischen Gesichtspunkten.
Q48|How energy audits promote SMEs' energy efficiency investment|This paper assesses the role of energy audits in promoting energy-efficiency measures in SMEs. It benefits from the data collected within the European Investment Bank Surveys in 2017 and 2018, involving information about energy audits and energy-efficiency investments of some 12,500 signatures from EU28 Member States per year. Our findings suggest that energy audit is a useful tool in overcoming the information barriers and facilitating investments in energy-efficiency measures. In fact, their information is more crucial for small firms and for investments in support processes such as lighting, wall insulation etc. than in production processes such as replacement of machinery and equipment. However, we found that the beneficial impact of energy audits cease to exist when firms are finance constrained. Finally, our results indicate that information campaigns are one of the most efficient available instruments among other instruments (regulatory, financial and voluntary agreements) for promoting energy audits in SMEs.
Q48|Umsetzung der europäischen Binnenmarktrichtlinie für Elektrizität (96/92/EG) und deren wettbewerbliche Folgen|Gegenstand dieser Arbeit sind die Auswirkungen der Liberalisierung der europäischen Strommärkte. Einen Schwerpunkt bildet dabei die Beschreibung des deutschen Marktes, wobei den Schwierigkeiten der Stadtwerke ein eigener Abschnitt gewidmet ist. Diese Unternehmen stehen seit der völligen Marktöffnung aus verschiedenen Gründen besonders unter Druck, allerdings existieren auch mehrere Gründe, die das in den Medien häufig zitierte und befürchtete „Stadtwerkesterben“ als übertrieben erscheinen lassen. Abschließend wird gezeigt, wie andere EU-Länder ihre Märkte öffneten. Während Großbritannien und die skandinavischen Staaten sich als sehr vorbildlich erwiesen haben, stellt Frankreich das unrühmliche Negativbeispiel dar. Dieses Land hat erst nach über einem Jahr Verzögerung langsam angefangen, seinen zentralistisch-monopolistisch strukturierten Markt anderen Anbietern zugänglich zu machen.
Q48|From fundamentals to financial assets: the evolution of understanding price formation in the EU ETS|Now in its third compliance period, we can look back at more than 12 years of existence of the emissions trading system (ETS) in the European Union. The focus of this paper is to review the empirical literature on price formation in the EU ETS. As a reoccurring concept, we draw on a simple theoretical model of price formation that we subsequently extend to accommodate three different strands of literature. First, we gather evidence based on empirical papers which look at the role of fundamental price drivers. Second, we review the event study literature, where political and regulatory uncertainty is the main topic. Third, we devote a major part to finance literature in this market. In every section, we pay special attention to the challenges that arise when empirically modeling allowance prices in this complex market. We emphasize that there is a need for more evidence and possibly alternative approaches due to the complex interplay of compliance and finance trading motives. As a result, the findings of this review provide important lessons about price formation in the EU ETS, which can also inform the design of such programs in other countries.
Q48|Employment Effects of Offshore Oil and Gas Regulations|The estimation of the employment effects of offshore safety and environmental regulation is often highly speculative and based on questionable assumptions. Nevertheless, it is still highly publicized and used as a basis for policy statements in support or, or in opposition to, proposed regulations. Much more reliable estimates of such employment effects can be made, however, based on fundamental principles of microeconomic analysis. This paper demonstrates this by developing a microeconomic model explaining the effects of offshore regulations on employment, assuming the standard profit-maximization behavior of firms. The paper finds that the most relevant and reliable measures of employment effects are: reductions in employment from operations that are terminated because of the new regulation, increases in employment because of additional labor needed to meet the new requirements, and increases in employment in equipment manufacturing when the regulation calls for the expanded use of certain equipment. The costs related to these contractions or expansions of employment can often be gleaned from information in the benefit-cost analysis that was required to accompany the proposed regulation by the regulatory agency involved. For example, the daily costs of offshore rigs and the costs of equipment can be translated to increases in employment.
Q48|Advancing a global transition to clean energy: The role of international cooperation|International cooperation in support of a global energy transition is on the rise. Initiatives and venues for multilateral cooperation are complemented by growing bilateral engagement to foster international lesson-drawing and exchange. Official development assistance (ODA) in the energy sector is increasingly being directed to renewable energy sources. Despite these promising developments, it is widely acknowledged that investment towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7 on clean and affordable energy is insufficient. A recent report by SE4ALL estimates annual investments in support of SDG7 at USD 30 billion. This is well below the USD 52 billion that would be needed (SE4ALL and Climate Policy Initiative, Energizing finance: Understanding the landscape 2018, 2018). Moreover, investment in clean energy remains heavily concentrated in a small number of frontrunner countries. In terms of technologies, investments in clean energy still overwhelmingly target grid-connected electricity generation. Despite their proven ability to provide rapid and affordable access to clean energy in many country contexts, off-grid technologies account for only 1.3 percent of investments (SE4ALL and Climate Policy Initiative, 2018). Worryingly, a significant share of international public sector financing, most notably by export-credit agencies, is still allocated to coal and other fossil-based technologies. Against this background, this paper makes three recommendations for strengthening international cooperation in support of a global energy transition: 1) Promote investment in clean energy and end support for coal-based energy infrastructure. 2) Tackle the socio-economic dimension of the global energy transition. 3) Provide early market support to promote challenge-based energy innovation.
Q48|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q48|State mandates on renewable heating technologies and the housing market|We study the effect of a state level mandate on renewable heating technologies on the housing market. The mandate requires a minimum share of 10 % renewable energy sources when changing the heating system in the existing building stock. As renewable energy sources are still more expensive than conventional alternatives this mandate could lower the relative price of homes in the existing building stock when a replacement of the heating system is impending. We implement a two stage difference-in-differences nearest neighbor matching approach to identify the effect on prices taking advantage of differences in regulation by location and vintage of the building stock. Our results find no evidence of an effect of the mandate on housing prices.
Q48|How marginal is lignite? Two simple approaches to determine price-setting technologies in power markets|The parameterisation of energy and climate policies often depends on the technology, which is price-setting in electricity markets. We propose two simple approaches to determine marginal technologies in electricity wholesale from available data. Both approaches are complementary, computationally lightweight, and do not require specific software. Identification is based upon assumptions which are commonly used in more complex energy system models and which vary according to the approach. We illustrate the relevance of our approach for consistent policy parameterization with an example from the compensation scheme for indirect emission costs from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). We find that the current policy design severely overweighs CO2 emissions from lignite power plants in the CWE power market.
Q48|A deprivation-based assessment of energy poverty: Conceptual problems and application to Germany|In this paper, subjective and objective aspects of deprivation are used to derive an aggregated multidimensional measure of energy poverty. The proposed measure is based on deprivation with a direct relation to energy consumption, but it also accounts for excessive financial restrictions due to energy costs, it gives priority to low income households, and controls for economic energy use. Based on logistic regression, we find strong effects of income and energy expenditure on the likelihood of energy deprivation in Germany, but these variables only partially constitute energy poverty. Other aspects, e.g. employment status or housing conditions, play an important role as well.
Q48|The use of revenues from carbon pricing|The paper collects comprehensive and detailed data on what 40 OECD and G20 economies do with the revenues from carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes on energy use. It notes that constraints – which can take the form of political commitments or legal earmarks – on revenue use differ between carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes. Constraints are less common for excise taxes, which also raise the most revenue. Carbon tax revenues are relatively often associated with environmental tax reforms, involving reductions in personal or corporate income taxes. Revenues from emissions trading systems are frequently directed towards green spending. The results may be relevant to the political economy of ambitious carbon pricing schemes in the sense that the political expedience of choices on revenue use may depend on the amount of revenue raised.
Q48|Améliorer l’efficience de l’investissement public en France|L’investissement public a le potentiel de stimuler la demande à court terme, et des infrastructures appropriées peuvent aussi entraîner des gains de productivité et contribuer à rendre la croissance économique plus inclusive en garantissant une égalité d’accès au marché du travail, à l’éducation et aux soins de santé. Les investissements publics de la France sont élevés, et son stock de capital public est important. En particulier, le réseau d’infrastructures de la France est bien développé, et très bien classé si on le compare à celui d’autres pays. Pour autant, dans certains secteurs, le manque d’investissements d’entretien et de modernisation a sans doute nui à l’efficacité du capital investi dans les infrastructures existantes. Pour pouvoir bénéficier pleinement de ses investissements publics, la France doit renforcer et développer l’ensemble de sa stratégie pour relever plusieurs défis, consistant notamment à promouvoir les considérations d’efficience socio-économique dans le choix de ses projets d’investissement, à harmoniser les procédures s’étalant sur toute la durée de vie des investissements entre les différents secteurs et niveaux administratifs, et à concentrer les investissements de certains secteurs sur l’entretien et la qualité du stock de capital. En outre, comme les collectivités locales sont responsables de la plupart des investissements publics, il sera utile de poursuivre les efforts visant à répartir clairement les responsabilités entre les différents échelons administratifs pour pouvoir bénéficier d’économies d’échelle et de gamme. L’investissement public devrait aussi viser à atteindre les objectifs fixés dans les domaines de l’environnement, du numérique, de la recherche et de l’innovation pour permettre à la France de respecter ses engagements nationaux et internationaux et garantir une croissance plus vigoureuse et plus durable. Les choix opérés devront faire une place à l’investissement privé pour permettre la réalisation de ces objectifs et stimuler la croissance potentielle, notamment en développant une liste de projets prêts à financer et en ajustant de manière dynamique le soutien public aux politiques en matière d’énergie et de changement climatique. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de la France 2019 (http://www.oecd.org/fr/economie/france-en-un-coup-d-oeil/)
Q48|Vintage differentiated regulations and plant survival: Evidence from coal-fired plants|This paper assesses the effect of environmental regulations on plant survival and emissions using data on the extent of vintage differentiation of regulations (VDR5) regarding air pollution emission limit values for existing and new coal-fired power plants. Focussing on NOx and SOx emissions, the paper applies survival analysis techniques on a sample of generating units across 31 OECD and non-member countries between 1962 and 2012.
Q48|The Implication of B20 Policy on Environment|This paper investigates the impact of B20 policy, with the aims to reduce fossil oil import and increase production of biofuel, on environment impact. General Trade Analysis Project on Energy and Environment (GTAP E) model is using to analyze its impact. the result shows that reduction of 20 percent on import oil gives positive impact on reduction of carbon dioxode emission. While paddy rice, forestry, vegan fruit and agriculture gives negative impact on commodity market price, and natural resources gives positive impacts.
Q48|Applying Tax Rate of 33,33% on Primary Energy in Indonesia|High fuel consumption has a negative impact not only on the environment, but also can have wider impact on the country's economic conditions. Thus, steps need to be taken regarding the use of fuel in order to reduce the negative impact that results. The aims of this study is to analyze the impact that occurred on the industry and the Indonesian economy when a tax of 33,33% was determined on the use of primary energy, that is coal and petroleum products, through three simulations. By using a model from GTAP-E, the region is aggregated into 7 regions and the industrial sector will be aggregated into 11 industries. The result shows that simulation C has a significant impact on the industry and the Indonesian economy. In addition, this simulation is also able to reduce carbon dioxide gas emissions which derive from coal and petroleum.
Q48|The Mining Dynamics and Economic performance in South African Mineral Resources Using Quantile Regression|The paper analyses the performance of the South African mineral resources such as gold, coal, Platinum Group Metals (PGMs), iron ore, manganese and diamonds, by assessing the dynamics of commodity total production and sales over the period 1990-2018. The empirical evidence is based on Monge-Kantorovich Multivariate Quantile regression. The change in revenue, exchange rates, mining production oil prices, Producer Price Index (PPI) as well as the dummy variable which presents the shock of a global financial crisis, are proposed indicators of the study. The results are nevertheless ambiguous in some sectors. The findings provided that the depreciation of exchange rates is associated with positive and significant increases in total production and sales, particularly in the coal and diamond sectors. In particular, oil prices only contribute unfavorably to coal, PGMs and diamond production. The results might be interpreted to provide some useful implications for minerals and mining policy strategy.
Q48|Stylized Facts on Thailand's Residential Electricity Consumption: Evidence from the Provincial Electricity Authority|This paper documents a few stylized facts of the residential electricity consumption in Thailand. Using an administrative billing records of 16 million residential meters, we find the following stylized facts and potential uses of the data. First, electricity consumption pattern can be used as proxies for household's wealth and wealth inequality since it reflects ownership of durable electrical appliances. Second, bill payment choices suggest that a majority of the households still face non-trivial transaction costs in paying their utility bills. Lastly, the electricity consumption pattern suggests that wealthier households are more sensitive to the temperature change but are less sensitive to the change in price.
Q48|Pricing Patterns in Wholesale Electricity Markets: Unilateral Market Power or Coordinated Behavior?|We examine allegations that firms in Alberta's electricity industry manipulated public information to coordinate in the wholesale market. We investigate whether bids by firms who employed unique pricing patterns were consistent with unilateral expected profit maximization. Our results suggest that these firms could have increased expected profits through unilateral deviations. For one firm, the potential to increase profits is greater on days when certain offer patterns are observed, providing support for the claim that such patterns may have assisted coordination on high-priced outcomes. These results suggest that regulators should exercise caution when designing information disclosure policies in concentrated electricity markets.
Q48|The Role of Electricity in Decarbonizing European Road Transport – Development and Assessment of an Integrated Multi-Sectoral Model|Despite regulation eﬀorts, CO2 emissions from European road transport have continued to rise. Increased use of electricity oﬀers a promising decarbonization option, both to fuel electric vehicles and run power-to-x systems producing synthetic fuels. To understand the economic implications of increased coupling of the road transport and electricity sectors, an integrated multi-sectoral partial-equilibrium investment and dispatch model is developed for the European electricity and road transport sectors, linked by an energy transformation module to endogenously account for, e.g., increasing electricity consumption and ﬂexibility provision from electric vehicles and power-to-x systems. The model is applied to analyze the eﬀects of sector-speciﬁc CO2 reduction targets on the vehicle, electricity and ptx technology mix as well as trade ﬂows of ptx fuels in European countries from 2020 to 2050. The results show that, by 2050, the fuel shares of electricity and ptx fuels in the European road transport sector reach 37% and 27%, respectively, creating an additional electricity demand of 1200 TWh in Europe. To assess the added value of the integrated modeling approach, an additional analysis is performed in which all endogenous ties between sectors are removed. The results show that by decoupling the two sectors, the total system costs may be signiﬁcantly overestimated and the production costs of ptx fuels may be inaccurately approximated, which may aﬀect the merit order of decarbonization options.
Q48|Fukushima and German Energy Policy 2005 - 2015/2016|The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in 2011 led to some drastic reactions in Germany, in particular an immediate shut-downof older nuclear power plants. This event is therefore often seen as a turning point, or a major accelerator for the German Energiewende. We investigate the short term effects, but also put the event into a longer, 10-year perspective. This shows that hardly any trend in the energy policy was strongly affected by policy decisions of 2011. Major trends are the increase of renewable electricity sources, the phase out of nuclear, a slight increase in energy efficiency, while total energy consumption and also greenhouse gas emissions remained stable in the decade 2005-2015/16. We also provide some tentative explanations for these developments.
Q48|How Does Climate Change Affect Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy?|Ongoing climate change aﬀects complex and long-lived infrastructures like electricity systems. Particularly for decarbonized electricity systems based on variable renewable energies, there is a variety of impact mechanisms working diﬀerently in size and direction. Main impacts for Europe include changes in wind and solar resources, hydro power, cooling water availability for thermoelectric generation and electricity demand. Hence, it is not only important to understand the total eﬀects, i.e., how much welfare may be gained when accounting for climate change impacts in all dimensions, but also to disentangle various eﬀects in terms of their marginal contribution to the potential welfare loss. This paper applies a two-stage modeling framework to assess RCP8.5 climate change impacts on the European electricity system. Thereby, the performance of two electricity system design strategies – one based on no anticipation of climate change and one anticipating impacts of climate change – is studied under a variety of climate change impacts. Impacts on wind and solar resources are found to cause the largest system eﬀects in 2100. Combined climate change impacts increase system costs of a system designed without climate change anticipation due to increased fuel and carbon permit costs. Applying a system design strategy with climate change anticipation increases the cost-optimal share of variable renewable energy based on additional wind oﬀshore capacity in 2100, at a reduction in nuclear, wind onshore and solar PV capacity. Compared to a no anticipation strategy, total system costs are reduced.
Q48|The Reformed EU ETS - Intertemporal Emission Trading with Restricted Banking|With the increase of the linear reduction factor (LRF), the implementation of the market stability reserve (MSR) and the introduction of the cancellation mechanism (CM), the EU ETS changed fundamentally. We develop a discrete time model of the intertemporal allowance market that accurately depicts these reforms assuming that prices develop with the Hotelling rule as long as the TNAC is non-empty. A sensitivity analysis ensures the robustness of the model results regarding its input parameters. The accurate modelling of the EU ETS allows for a decomposition of the eﬀects of the individual amendments and the evaluation of the dynamic eﬃciency. The MSR shifts emissions to the future but is allowance preserving. The CM reduces the overall emission cap, increasing allowance prices in the long run, but does not signiﬁcantly impact the emission and price path in the short run. The increased LRF leads with 9 billion cancelled allowances to a stronger reduction than the CM and is therefore the main price driver of the reform.
Q48|Did the Eco-Car program change the customer base of HVs?|For the last several decades, governments have implemented various energy conservation measures aimed at reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector. Among these measures, the spread of next-generation vehicles as an immediate policy goal has been particularly emphasized in recent years. By implementing subsidy programs for a limited period of time, governments try to influence the behavior of households that have not previously considered purchasing the products that have desirable properties. However, no literature has yet identified the households that switched from conventional gasoline vehicles to HVs. In this study, we compare the vehicle choice between three sampling periods (before/during/after the Eco-Car rebate program) and examine whether the rebate program changed the customer base of HVs.For the empirical analysis, we use micro-level data from the Japanese National Survey of Family Income and Expenditure (NSFE), which was collected in 2009 and 2014. NSFE collects data on households? socioeconomic characteristics, such as income/expenditure, savings/liabilities, and ownership of durable goods, as well as information related to houses, such as dwelling characteristics and site area. In addition, NSFE also collects vehicle-related information such as the number of vehicles owned, the year of purchase of each vehicle, and the type of vehicle.The empirical results by multinomial logit analysis demonstrate that the likelihood of HV selection increased substantially during the program period and remained at a high level after the program ended. We also find that households with large net wealth purchased HVs during the Eco-Car program period. Finally, we find that households having a higher income used to purchase HVs earlier. However, income has come to play a less important role in the choice between a HV and SGV after the end of the Eco-Car program.
Q48|Neither crowding in nor out: Public direct investment mobilising private investment into renewable electricity projects|Rapid structural change towards a low-carbon energy supply requires significant additional investments into innovative but high-risk low-carbon technologies. Mobilising greater private investments requires applying the right policy instruments, but while fiscal measures and regulation have been well researched, systematic quantitative evidence about the effect of public direct investment is lacking. Absent empirical evidence, contradictory theoretical arguments claim that such public (co-)investments either â€˜crowd outâ€™ or â€˜crowd inâ€™ private investors. In this paper we show that the macroeconomic concept of crowding out/in is inapplicable to sectoral studies such as of renewable electricity. Instead, both neoclassical microeconomics and evolutionary economics suggest public direct investment to have a positive effect due to either externalities or market creation effects. We also provide the first quantitative estimate of the effect of public direct investment on private investment into renewable electricity technologies for 17 countries in the period 2004-2014. Using feasible generalised least squares (FGLS) and static and dynamic generalised method of moments (GMM) estimators, we find that public investments not only have a positive but also consistently the largest effect on private investment flows relative to feed-in tariffs, taxes and renewable portfolio standards in general, and for wind and solar technologies separately. Implications for policy aimed at accelerating the low-carbon transition are discussed.
Q48|Heterogeneous welfare and emission effects of energy tax policies in Brazil|The consolidation of the energy sector as one of the main emitters of greenhouse gases in Brazil is directly related to the expansion of fuel consumption in passenger and cargo transport and to the higher use of thermal power plants for electricity generation. This fact reflects a detachment from the historical renewable energy and biofuels production and goes against the global efforts to reduce GHG emissions. Our paper analyzes the short run emissions and distributional effects of energy price changes in a partial equilibrium framework. Our findings suggest that taxes and subsidies in fuel prices (oil and diesel, respectively) are progressive, but have positive impact on total household emissions due to substitution effects. Despite being regressive, changes in electricity price have large effects on household emissions due to the characteristics of electric energy supply in Brazil. More environment-friendly policies that subsidize ethanol have a small but positive effect on the economy and tend to reduce households emissions. However, large substitution effects - due to an increase in the demand for CO2eq intensive goods, such as commuting and transportation services - when also taxing oil do not offset the reduction in emissions caused by a lower ethanol price. Therefore, understanding who benefits from energy price taxes and subsidies and their welfare impacts policies are key to gaining public support for a greener energy matrix.
Q48|Costs of energy efficiency mandates can reverse the sign of rebound|Improvements in energy efficiency can reduce costs of consuming services from cars and appliances and result in positive rebound that offsets part of the direct energy reduction. Our analytical general equilibrium model decomposes rebound into direct and indirect effects. A costless technology shock has positive rebound as in prior literature, but a pre-existing energy efficiency standard can negate direct energy savings from that shock. For increased stringency of energy efficiency standards, however, we show how income effects reduce energy use for both services and other goods. We show exactly when those increased costs imply negative total rebound.
Q48|Assessment of the drafted German Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan|Germany is struggling to meet its 2020 greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and climate goals. Against this background, we analyze the current draft National Energy and Climate Plan (NECP) that sets out how Germany aims to achieve its national and European climate goals by 2030. We introduce the current stage of the country’s climate policy and, by looking at the different emission reduction measures under discussion, examine why Germany will probably miss its CO2 emissions reduction goals. We conclude that, based on the climate package announced in September 2019, Germany will get closer to the achievement of its 2030 targets than was anticipated in the NECP draft; nevertheless, the new climate package leaves a significant gap between the new measures and the 2030 climate goals.
Q48|The impact of a Carbon Tax on the CO2 emissions reduction of wind|Energy policy aims to reduce emissions at least long-run cost while ensuring reliability. Its efficacy depends on the cost of emissions reduced. Britain introduced an additional carbon tax (the Carbon Price Support, CPS) for fuels used to generate electricity that by 2015 added £18/t CO2, dramatically reducing the coal share from 41% in 2013 to 6% in 2018. Policies have both short and long-run impacts. Both need to be estimated to measure carbon savings. The paper shows how to measure the Marginal Displacement Factor (MDF, tonnes CO2 /MWh) for wind. The short-run MDF is estimated econometrically while the long-run MDF is calculated from a unit commitment model of the GB system in 2015. We examine counter-factual fuel and carbon price scenarios. The CPS lowered the short-run SR-MDF by 7% in 2015 but raised the long-run LR-MDF (for a 25% increase in wind capacity) by 18%. We discuss reasons for the modest differences in the SR and LR MDFs. The CPS raised the 2016 wholesale price by £6.22/MWh with impacts on interconnector trade.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Strengths and Weaknesses of the British Market Model|The UK privatized the electricity supply industry from 1989 in the expectation that private ownership and incentive regulation would invest and operate sufficiently more efficiently to offset the higher cost of private finance. This was achieved in the first two decades, assisted by spare capacity, contract-based entry of new efficient and cheap CCGTs, and regulatory pressure on transmission and distribution companies. The climate change imperative to decarbonize requires massive durable and very capital-intensive investment that casts doubt on the liberalised financing model. In the past 30 years, much has been learned about mitigating market power, the failings of an energy-only market, and the potential distortions of poorly designed prices for renewables and tariffs for networks. Innovation has been successfully stimulated though competitions. Efficiency, falling renewable costs and the carbon tax have almost completely driven coal out of the system.
Q48|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|Interconnectors have value for Britain, providing access to cheaper Continental power, security of supply, and managing increased renewables, prompting proposals for substantial new interconnectors. The EU Target Electricity Model requires interconnector market coupling via Day Ahead and IntraDay Markets. We examine the efficiency and value of uncoupled and coupled trading for the four DC interconnectors to GB, over different timescales from year ahead to intraday, and the social costs and benefits not reflected in the private benefits. IFA and BritNed have a commercial value of about €500 million/yr and create additional surplus of €25 m./yr. The island of Ireland coupled on 1 Oct 2018, dramatically reducing trading inefficiency. Because the GB carbon tax is not replicated abroad it transfers some €40 m./yr to the foreign share of IFA and BritNed as well as adding distortionary costs when trade flows change. The policy implication is that while further investment in interconnectors appears socially profitable, it is important to harmonise carbon taxes across the EU. If GB leaves the EU and is uncoupled, some of these trading gains would be sacrificed, but other financial markets may alleviate the cost of Brexit, making policies to enhance liquidity desirable.
Q48|The role of expectations for market design – on structural regulatory uncertainty in electricity markets|Ongoing policy discussions on the reconfiguration of bidding zones in European electricity markets induce structural uncertainty about the future market design. This paper deals with the question of how this structural uncertainty affects market participants and their long-run investment decisions in generation and transmission capacity. We propose a stochastic multilevel model, which incorporates generation capacity investment, network expansion and redispatch, taking into account uncertainty about the future market design. Using a stylized two-node network, we disentangle different effects that uncertainty has on market outcomes. Our results reveal that expectations about future market structures have an important effect on investment decisions. Unlike most parametric uncertainties, structural uncertainty about the future market design can have a positive effect on welfare, even if a market design change does not actually take place, although there are distributional effects. This also implies that the welfare gains of a change to a more efficient market design are lower if market participants already anticipate this change.
Q48|Political Economy of Reform and Regulation in the Electricity Sector of Sub-Saharan Africa|As part of their electricity sector reforms, Sub-Saharan African countries have established independent regulatory agencies to signal legal and political commitment to end self-regulation and provision of service by the state. The reforms aimed to encourage private investments, improve efficiency, and extend the service to the millions who lacked access to it. However, after nearly two and half decades of reforms, these expectations have not been met and the electricity sectors of these countries remain undeveloped. There are anecdotes that these outcomes are due to poor design, non-credible, unpredictable regulations, and political interference. This paper investigates the performance of the reforms in the context of government political ideology. We use a dynamic panel estimator and data from 45 countries from 2000 to 2015 to analyse the role of ideological differences in the effect of independent sector regulation on access to electricity and installed capacity. We find negative impact from independent regulatory agencies on installed capacity in countries with left-wing governments, while in countries with right-wing governments we find positive effects on capacity. Also, we find negative impact on access in countries with left-wing governments, while we find no significant impact for countries with right-wing governments. The results have interesting policy implications for private sector participation, increased generation capacity and access rates especially in countries with left-wing governments.
Q48|The Impact of Unilateral Carbon Taxes on Cross-Border Electricity Trading|Market coupling makes efficient use of interconnectors by ensuring higher-price markets import until prices are equated or interconnectors constrained. A carbon tax in one of the market can distort trade and reduce price convergence. We investigate econometrically the impact of the British Carbon Price Support (CPS, an extra carbon tax) on GBs cross-border electricity trading with France (through IFA) and the Netherlands (through BritNed). Over 2015-2018 the CPS would have raised the GB day-ahead price by an average of about €10/MWh in the absence of compensating adjustments through increased imports. The actual price differential with our neighbours fell to about €8/MWh allowing for replacement by cheaper imports. The CPS increased GB imports by 13 TWh/yr, thereby reducing carbon tax revenue by €103 million/yr. Congestion income increased by €133 m/yr, half transferred to foreign interconnector owners. The unilateral CPS created €28 m/yr deadweight loss. About 18% of the increase in the GB price caused by the CPS was passed through to higher French prices and 29% in higher Dutch prices.
Q48|Can wholesale electricity prices support “subsidy-free” generation investment in Europe?|Using a Pan-European electricity dispatch model we find that with higher variable renewable energy (VRE) production wholesale power prices may no longer serve as a long-run signal for generation investment in 2025. If wind and solar are to be self-financing by 2025 under the current European market design, they would need to be operating in circumstances which combine lower capital cost with higher fossil fuel and/or carbon prices. In the absence of these conditions, long term subsidy mechanisms would need to continue in order to meet European renewable electricity targets. More VRE production will exacerbate the ‘missing money’ problem for conventional generation. Thus, closures of unprofitable fossil fuel generation would sharpen and increase energy-only prices but would put more pressure on ancillary services markets to support system stability. Thus, the question of the need for a market redesign to let the market guide investments in both renewables and conventional generation would seem to remain.
Q48|European Gas Markets, Trading Hubs, and Price Formation: A Network Perspective|We apply network theory to analyse the interactions of trading hub prices, and to assess the harmonisation of the European gas market. We construct dynamic networks, where the nodes correspond to the twelve EU trading hubs, and where the edges weight the causality between the variations of the respective gas prices. Network density dynamically calculates the aggregate quantity of causal interactions recorded within the system, which provides information pertaining to the integration of the European gas network. We document a number of spikes in network density, suggesting short periods of improved connectivity of European gas markets. We argue that these results appear to be driven by exogenous factors, such as unseasonal weather patterns, seismic activity and pipeline capacity reductions or outages. The findings elucidate the time varying nature of European gas market dynamics, and the importance of continual monitoring of market evolution.
Q48|A Unit Commitment and Economic Dispatch Model of the GB Electricity Market – Formulation and Application to Hydro Pumped Storage|We present a well calibrated unit commitment and economic dispatch model of the GB electricity market and applied it to the economic analysis of the four existing hydro pumped storage (PS) stations in GB. We found that with more wind on the system PS arbitrage revenue increases: with every percentage point (p.p) increase in wind capacity the total PS arbitrage profit increases by 0.21 p.p.. However, under a range of wind capacity, the PS’ modelled revenue from price arbitrage is not enough to cover their ongoing fixed costs. Analysing the 2015-18 GB balancing and ancillary services data suggests that PS stations were not active in managing transmission constraints and in fact about 60% of constraint payments went to gas-fired units. However, the PS stations are active in provision of ancillary services such as fast reserve, response and other reserve services with a combined market share of at least 30% in 2018. Stacking up the modelled revenue from price arbitrage with the 2018 balancing and ancillary services revenues against the ongoing fixed costs suggests that the four existing PS stations are profitable. Most of the revenue comes from balancing and ancillary services markets – about 75% – whereas only 25% comes from price arbitrage. However, the revenues will not be enough to cover capex and opex of a new 600 MW PS station. The gap in financing will have to come from balancing and ancillary services market opportunities and less so from purely price arbitrage. Finally, we found that the marginal contribution of most of the existing PS stations to gas and coal plant profitability is negative, while from the system point of view, PS stations do contribute to minimizing the total operating cost.
Q48|Financing low-carbon generation in the UK: The hybrid RAB model|Decarbonising electricity is a critical first step in mitigating climate damage but low/zero-carbon generation is very capital intensive. Its cost depends critically on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Three factors combine to make a low WACC both desirable and feasible in the UK. First, the Stern Report argues for a low social discount rate (1.4% real) for investments in climate mitigation. Second, global and UK real interest rates have been falling steadily - UK gilt index-linked 20-year rates have fallen from +4% in 1995 to -2% (negative) in 2019. CCS and nuclear have long lifetimes over which to recover their capital cost, longer than commercial finance would accept without guarantees, in contrast to renewables where off-take contracts have proven sufficient. Nuclear power faces the additional investment challenge of lengthy uncertain construction. No nuclear plant has ever been built privately without substantial regulatory guarantees. The Regulated Asset Base (RAB) model can address these financing problems for long-lived low-carbon assets. The benefits of placing risk on developers to motivate cost control are small compared to the extra costs of a higher weighted average cost of capital (WACC). A hybrid RAB model (like that used for the Thames Tideway Tunnel)—with excess cost sharing and a cost cap—can reduce risk to deliver an adequately low WACC by accessing infrastructure funds that do not require extensive specialised project knowledge. If the risk of excess costs is spread over the 27 million households and other customers taking two-thirds of electricity, each would bear minimal risk and the cumulative cost would be significantly lower. The levelized cost at the WACC (3.5% real) is £53/MWh if on time and budget, which should be compared with a counterfactual in which all the risk is placed on the company requiring a contract-for-difference with a strike price of £96/MWh for the life of the project (equal to the levelized cost). The levelised cost to consumers if on time and budget would be £50/MWh and in the worst case with a 48% cost over-run, £64/MWh.
Q48|Projected Costs of U.S. Nuclear Forces, 2019 to 2028|The nationâ€™s nuclear forces are reaching the end of their service life. CBO estimates that the Administrationâ€™s current plans to operate, maintain, and modernize them would cost $494 billion over the 2019â€“2028 period, or about 6 percent of the total 10-year costs of the plans for national defense outlined in the Presidentâ€™s 2019 budget submission. The current estimate is 23 percent (or $94 billion) higher than CBOâ€™s 2017 estimate for the 2017â€“2026 period, largely because modernization programs are further along in their development and some new programs have been added.
Q48|Making Smart Meters Smarter the Smart Way|We report first results from a large scale randomized control trial of different forms of energy consumption feedback facilitated by smart meters and smart phone feedback apps. Nearly 40,000 customers of a large energy retailer in the UK were exposed to either very basic feedback apps - i.e. simply giving consumers access to monthly energy consumption - or more advanced feedback involving peer group comparisons as well as dis-aggregation of total electricity consumption. We find that more advanced feedback can lead to an average consumption reduction of nearly 4% (Intent to Treat). Taking into account that a large number of customers never sign in to any feedback apps suggests that the reduction effect among customers that do sign in is up to 12%. The smart meter installation was implemented by different installation firms across our sample and we find the reduction effect only for one customers of one installer who displays higher capabilities along a number of metrics. This could suggest that achieving energy preservation objectives does not only depend on the technology involved but also on the capabilities and skills of firms installing those technologies. In the UK, smart meters are by default installed with In Home Displays (IHD) that provide real time feedback on energy use. Some of the customers in our sample did not receive an IHD and we explore if this had any impact on the consumption reduction effect described above. Customers with (and without) IHD comprise a self-selected sample so we have to be careful in drawing causal conclusions. However, we do not find any evidence that any energy reducing effect is contingent on IHDs.
Q48|Prices vs. percentages: use of tradable green certificates as an instrument of greenhouse gas mitigation|The paper analyzes the problem of achieving a target path of emission reductions in the electricity sector, using a scheme of tradable green certificates (TGC). There are two types of generation, renewable and fossil. The latter causes the emissions. The paper also examines effects from emission regulation on construction of new renewable generation capacity. Outcomes are compared with an emission fee and a subsidy. The analytical results are simulated with a numerical model and social surplus are calculated for the different instruments. Two versions of the percentage requirement are devised for the TGC scheme. Results show that the target path of emission reductions is achievable, but incentives for new renewable generation capacity will be sub-optimal, regardless of the version of the percentage requirement. The TGC scheme is neither the most accurate nor the most cost-efficient, instrument but it does lead to a smaller reduction of social surplus than a subsidy.
Q48|Phase-out of 'coal to power' in an ETS|We investigate the displacement effects of phase-out-of-coal policies in a stylized model of electricity generation and CO2 regulation, in which a group of countries operates an emissions trading scheme (ETS). Electricity markets are either international or national and the emissions cap remains either unchanged or is tightened. With constant emissions cap and trade in electricity, some emissions as well as some coal-based electricity ‘leak’ into other countries and the aggregate welfare of the group of countries declines, if a country unilaterally phases out coal. With constant emissions cap and no trade in electricity, the unilaterally phasing-out country is worse off and the other countries are better off. Following a suggestion in a recently revised EU ETS Directive, we then combine a country’s phase-out policy with canceling the permits it formerly used to generate electricity from coal. When electricity is traded, that combined policy prevents the leakage of emissions and coal-based electricity and shifts a share of the welfare costs to other countries. Without trade in electricity, the other countries generate less coal-based electricity and all countries’ consumption welfare decreases, but all countries benefit from reduced climate damage. Finally, we offer an empirical calibration of our model to the European Union.
Q48|Microeconomics of the rebound effect for residential solar photovoltaic systems|The rebound effect is a well-known behavioral response whereby potential energy savings from efficiency improvements are partially offset by increased consumption of energy services, as the marginal cost of energy services is reduced. This paper characterizes a similar rebound effect related to installation and operation of a residential photovoltaic (PV) system. This solar rebound effect is different from traditionally studied rebound effects, primarily because it is due not to an improvement in the energy efficiency of a household’s appliances, but to the supply of a zero-marginal-cost perfect substitute for grid electricity. The solar rebound effect is first derived in the absence of any subsidization mechanism. We then modify the model to account for two commonly implemented incentives: installation rebates and net metering. Rebates are shown to increase the rebound effect, whereas the effect of net metering depends on the per-unit compensation rate.
Q48|CAFE in the City – A Spatial Analysis of Fuel Economy Standards|Climate policy instruments in the transportation sector like fuel economy standards (CAFE) and fuel taxes not only affect households’ vehicle choice, but also the urban form in the long run. We introduce household level vehicle choice into the urban economic monocentric city model and run long-term climate policy scenarios to analyze the welfare effects of this urban adjustment in reaching emission goals. This goes beyond more short-term empirical analyses of the rebound effect in driving. We find that stricter CAFE standards lead to an urban expansion and considerable additional welfare costs for certain emission goals, unaccounted for in the previous literature on welfare costs of CAFE. These welfare costs can be reduced roughly by one half through the combination of CAFE with an urban growth boundary. Fuel taxes, in turn, lead to an urban contraction and additional welfare gains. We analyze the sensitivity of the results to changes in model parameters.
Q48|Fracking: viabilidad económica y ambiental en Colombia|Conocer el valor del desarrollo de la explotación de hidrocarburos para el sostenimiento de las finanzas de la economía colombiana es de vital importancia para entender cómo las técnicas de extracción no convencionales, como el fracking, pueden ser una alternativa para el crecimiento y complemento de la matriz energética del país. En este sentido, es conveniente evaluar en detalle las múltiples consecuencias económicas y ambientales que trae consigo la aplicación de tales técnicas, que pueden verse magnificadas en un contexto como el colombiano. Este documento se encarga de hacer una revisión histórica sobre la extracción de petróleo en Colombia en las últimas dos décadas enfocada, principalmente, en cómo el desarrollo se vería afectado por la implementación de las técnicas de fracturación hidráulica para la explotación de yacimientos no convencionales. El objetivo principal del artículo es dar a conocer cómo funciona esta técnica y los argumentos a favor y en contra de su implementación; se revisa la experiencia de Estados Unidos y se pretende predecir qué efectos se tendrán en materia social, económica y ambiental para el país. *** Knowing the value of the development of the hydrocarbons exploitation to sustain the finances of the Colombian economy is of vital importance to understand how non-conventional extraction techniques, such as Fracking, can be an alternative for growth and a complement the country's energy matrix. In this sense, it is convenient to evaluate in detail the multiple economic and environmental consequences brought about by the application of such techniques, which can be magnified in a context such as the Colombian one. This document reviews the history of oil extraction in Colombia over the last two decades, focusing mainly on how development would be affected by the implementation of hydraulic fracturing techniques for the exploitation of non-conventional oil deposits. The main objective of the article is to show how this technique works and the arguments for and against its implementation; it reviews the experience of the United States and aims to predict what effects will have in social, economic and environmental matters for the country.
Q48|"Use and Abuse of Regulated Prices in Electricity Markets: ""How to Regulate Regulated Prices?"""|We consider the regulation of the tariffs charged by a public utility in the electricity sector. Consumers differ in terms of their demands which are private information. When regulating the firm's tariffs, the government is concerned by redistribution across consumers classes. A conflict between redistribution and screening induces production distortions even when the firm is a monopoly. Introducing competition with an unregulated fringe may improve efficiency but jeopardizes redistribution. In response, the government may now want to manipulate information about the incumbent's cost so as to restrict entry and better promote its own redistributive objective. To prevent such obstacle to entry, the government's discretion in fixing regulated tariffs of the incumbent should be restricted. This can be done by imposing floors or caps on those tariffs and/or by controlling the market share left to the competitive fringe. We highlight the determinants of such limits on discretion and unveil to what extent they depend on the government's redistributive concerns.
Q48|Cooking that Kills : Cleaner Energy, Indoor Air Pollution, and Health|Cooking with dirty fuel is known to be one of the biggest sources of indoor air pollution in developing countries. I estimate the health impact of indoor air pollution using a nationwide fuel-switching program, the largest household energy transition project ever attempted in the developing world, affecting more than 50 million homes in Indonesia. This program focused on replacing a dirty cooking fuel, kerosene, with cleaner cooking fuel, liquid petroleum gas (LPG). I use a difference-in-differences design with time-varying program intensities to capture the dynamic increase in the households' access to LPG. A 10-percentage-point increase in the program intensity &- measured by the number of free initial LPG packages distributed &- reduces infant mortality rate by 3.3 percentage points, or 1.2 infants per 1,000 live births annually. This study highlights the fact that adopting cleaner energy can have a substantial health impact beyond what is currently known.
Q48|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy: Normative Assessment and Positive Prognosis|There is widespread agreement among economists--and a diverse set of other policy analysts--that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap-and-trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.
Q48|Digitalization for Energy Access in Sub-Saharan Africa : Challenges, Opportunities and Potential Business Models|Innovative business models supported by digital technologies, together with the widening connectivity and data collection, are already giving a big contribution in fostering the access to electricity and clean cooking in Sub-Saharan Africa. This paper gives an overview on the actual state of energy access in Sub-Saharan Africa and the current technologies used to provide it, followed by a description of the key trends and drivers of the ongoing African digital transformation. A deep analysis of the Pay-as-you-go business model in the off-grid solar sector will shed light on how this transformation started some years ago and the way it is affecting society in many ways. Strengths and opportunities — as well as weaknesses and risks of the model — are provided through a screening of the most representative business experiences in East and West Africa, financial aspects and market analysis. The perspective of both companies and end-users have been considered here. The last section gives recommendations to policy-makers on how to ride the wave of digitalization to foster the access to clean and reliable energy, by acting on the electrification planning, regulations, business environment, distribution channels and mobile money environment.
Q48|The Adverse Effect of Energy-Efficiency Policy|I analyze energy-efficiency policy as a prescription of a minimum-efficiency standard for energy-using household goods like cars, building insulation, and home appliances. Such a policy has two effects. At the intensive margin, a household that invests will choose a more efficient device. At the extensive margin, there will be more households that choose not to invest at all. Thus, additional to and different from rebound effects, energy-efficiency policy may have unintended consequences. I analyze the equilibrium effects of a minimum-efficiency standard, taking price adjustments and household heterogeneity into account. A moderate minimum-efficiency standard increases demand for efficiency-enhancing household capital goods, and reduces energy demand. More stringent policy is shown to be less effective or even counterproductive. For the case of a fixed supply of efficiency-enhancing capital, it is shown that minimum-efficiency standards increase equilibrium energy demand. Finally, I analyze which households benefit from minimum-efficiency standards and which ones lose. A standard induces investing households to expend more for household capital and less for energy. The wedge between the induced expenditures and the private optimum is analyzed as a deadweight loss.
Q48|The Welfare Costs of Misaligned Incentives: Energy Inefficiency and the Principal-Agent Problem|In many settings, misaligned incentives and inadequate monitoring lead employees to take self-interested actions contrary to their employer's wishes, giving rise to the classic principal-agent problem. In this paper, I identify and quantify the costs of misaligned incentives in the context of an energy efficiency appliance replacement program. I show that contractors (agents) hired by the electric utility (the principal) increase their compensation by intentionally misreporting program data to deliberately authorize replacement of non-qualified refrigerators. I provide empirical estimates of the impacts of misaligned incentives on (1) the effectiveness of energy efficiency retrofits and (2) welfare. I estimate that unqualified replacements reduce welfare by an average of $106 and save only half as much electricity as replacements that follow program guidelines. The same program without a principal-agent distortion would increase welfare by $60 per replacement. The resul ts provide novel evidence of how principal-agent distortions in the implementation of a potentially beneficial program can undermine its value.
Q48|Estimating the impacts of financing support policies towards photovoltaic market in Indonesia: A social-energy-economy-environment (SE3) model simulation|This study estimates the impacts of four solar energy policy interventions on the photovoltaic (PV) market potential, government expenditure, economic growth, and the environment. An agent-based model is developed to capture the specific economic and institutional features of developing economies, citing Indonesia as a specific case study. We undertake a novel approach to energy modelling by combining energy system analysis, input-output analysis, life-cycle analysis, and socio-economic analysis to obtain a comprehensive and integrated impact assessment. Our results, after sensitivity analysis, call for abolishing the existing PV grant policy in the Indonesian rural electrification programs. The government, instead, should encourage the PV industry to improve production efficiency and to provide after-sales service. A 100-watt peak (Wp) PV under this policy is affordable for 33.2 percent of rural households without electricity access in 2010. Rural PV market size potentially increases to 82.4 percent with rural financing institutions lending 70 percent of capital cost for five years at 12 percent annual interest rate. Additional 30 percent capital subsidy and 5 percent interest subsidy slightly increase the rural PV market potential to 89.6 percent of PV adopters. However, the subsidies are crucial for creating PV demands by urban households but the most effective policy for promoting PV to urban households is the net metering scheme. Several policy proposals are discussed in response to these findings.
Q48|The impact of a Carbon Tax on the CO2 emissions reduction of wind|Energy policy aims to reduce emissions at least long-run cost while ensuring reliability. Its efficacy depends on the cost of emissions reduced. Britain introduced an additional carbon tax (the Carbon Price Support, CPS) for fuels used to generate electricity that by 2015 added £18/t CO2, dramatically reducing the coal share from 41% in 2013 to 6% in 2018. Policies have both short and long-run impacts. Both need to be estimated to measure carbon savings. The paper shows how to measure the Marginal Displacement Factor (MDF, tonnes CO2 /MWh) for wind. The short-run MDF is estimated econometrically while the long-run MDF is calculated from a unit commitment model of the GB system in 2015. We examine counter-factual fuel and carbon price scenarios. The CPS lowered the short-run SR-MDF by 7% in 2015 but raised the long-run LR-MDF (for a 25% increase in wind capacity) by 18%. We discuss reasons for the modest differences in the SR and LR MDFs. The CPS raised the 2016 wholesale price by £6.22/MWh with impacts on interconnector trade.
Q48|Strengths and Weaknesses of the British Market Model|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|Capacity vs Energy Subsidies for Renewables: Benefits and Costs for the 2030 EU Power Market|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|The private and social value of British electrical interconnectors|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|The role of expectations for market design - on structural regulatory uncertainty in electricity markets|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|Buffering Volatility: Storage Investments and Technology-Specific Renewable Energy Support|Mitigating climate change will require integrating large amounts of highly intermittent renewable energy (RE) sources in future electricity markets. Considerable uncertainties exist about the cost and availability of future large-scale storage to alleviate the potential mismatch between demand and supply. This paper examines the suitability of regulatory (public policy) mechanisms for coping with the volatility induced by intermittent RE sources, using a numerical equilibrium model of a future wholesale electricity market. We find that the optimal RE subsidies are technology-specific reflecting the heterogeneous value for system integration. Differentiated RE subsidies reduce the curtailment of excess production, thereby preventing costly investments in energy storage. Using a simple cost-benefit framework, we show that a “smart” design of RE support policies significantly reduces the level of optimal storage. We further find that the marginal benefits of storage rapidly decrease for short-term (intra-day) storage and are small for long-term (seasonal) storage independent of the storage level. This suggests that storage is not likely to be the limiting factor for decarbonizing the electricity sector.
Q48|Energy-related financial literacy and bounded rationality in appliance replacement attitudes: Evidence from Nepal|Bounded rationality is an example of an important behavioral failure responsible for the energy-efficiency gap, whereby agents under-invest in energy-efficient technologies. One means of addressing this is by improving the energy-related financial literacy of households, which is defined as the combination of energy knowledge and cognitive abilities that are needed in order for agents to take sound decisions with respect to investment in durables. This has been found to improve the ability of agents to calculate the lifetime costs of technologies. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the determinants of energy-related financial literacy of respondents from about 2000 urban households in the Terai region of Nepal, and to analyze whether this ability has an effect on replacement attitudes of households regarding inefficient technologies. Using a novel household survey data, we find that respondents have low levels of energy-related financial literacy. While we find differences in the role of some socio-economic determinants of energy-related financial literacy compared to previous studies from developed countries, we also find certain common results, such as female respondents having lower scores. Additionally, we find that higher levels of energy-related financial literacy, especially stronger computational abilities, lead to more rational attitudes with regards to replacement of old appliances. As development has brought, and continues to bring, more households in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) closer to technologies of their liking, ensuring the adoption of energy-efficient technologies may be critical for ensuring sustainable development in the decades to come, and higher energy-related financial literacy may be one means of achieving that.
Q48|The Impact of Policy Awareness: Evidence from Vehicle Choices Response to Fiscal Incentives|Isolating the role of limited knowledge, psychological frictions and policy characteristics is key when evaluating a public program and designing future policies. This paper explores the role of awareness about the presence of fiscal programs in determining their impact on individual choices. Our identification strategy exploits quasi-experimental variation in the introduction of fiscal incentives aimed at promoting the purchase of energy efficient vehicles, and a direct measure of policy awareness at the individual level. We find an important impact of awareness on consumers’ vehicle choices, highlighting that limited awareness may represent a critical barrier to the effectiveness of public programs.
Q48|How Effective Was the UK Carbon Tax? — A Machine Learning Approach to Policy Evaluation|Carbon taxes are commonly seen as a rational policy response to climate change, but little is known about their performance from an ex-post perspective. This paper analyzes the emissions and cost impacts of the UK CPS, a carbon tax levied on all fossil-fired power plants. To overcome the problem of a missing control group, we propose a novel approach for policy evaluation which leverages economic theory and machine learning techniques for counterfactual prediction. Our results indicate that in the period 2013-2016 the CPS lowered emissions by 6.2 percent at an average cost of € 18 per ton. We find substantial temporal heterogeneity in tax-induced impacts which stems from variation in relative fuel prices. An important implication for climate policy is that a higher carbon tax does not necessarily lead to higher emissions reductions or higher costs.
Q48|Carbon Pricing and Power Sector Decarbonisation: Evidence from the UK|The electricity and heat generation sector represents about 40 % of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2016. Policy-makers have implemented a variety of instruments to decarbonise their power sector. This paper examines the UK Carbon Price Floor (CPF), a novel carbon pricing instrument implemented in the United Kingdom in 2013. After describing the potential mechanisms behind the recent UK power sector decarbonisation, I apply the synthetic control method on country-level data to estimate the impact of the CPF on per capita emissions. I discuss the importance of potential confounders and the amount of net electricity imports imputable to the policy. Depending on the specification, the abatement associated with the introduction of the CPF range from 106 to 185 millions tons of equivalent CO2 over the 2013-2017 period. This implies a reduction of between 41% and 49% of total power sector emissions by 2017. Several placebo tests suggest that these estimates capture a causal impact. This paper shows that a carbon levy on high-emitting inputs used for electricity generation can lead to successful decarbonisation.
Q48|Carbon Pricing and Power Sector Decarbonisation: Evidence from the UK|The electricity and heat generation sector represents about 40 % of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2016. Policy-makers have implemented a variety of instruments to decarbonise their power sector. This paper examines the UK Carbon Price Floor (CPF), a novel carbon pricing instrument implemented in the United Kingdom in 2013. After describing the potential mechanisms behind the recent UK power sector decarbonisation, I apply the synthetic control method on country-level data to estimate the impact of the CPF on per capita emissions. I discuss the importance of potential confounders and the amount of net electricity imports imputable to the policy. Depending on the specification, the abatement associated with the introduction of the CPF range from 106 to 185 millions tons of equivalent CO2 over the 2013-2017 period. This implies a reduction of between 41% and 49% of total power sector emissions by 2017. Several placebo tests suggest that these estimates capture a causal impact. This paper shows that a carbon levy on high-emitting inputs used for electricity generation can lead to successful decarbonisation.
Q48|Electricity availability: A precondition for faster economic growth?|We investigate if greater electricity availability helps countries ascend to faster economic growth trajectories. This is an important question for many developing countries that are currently prioritizing infrastructure investments. Using cross-sectional and panel regressions with national-level decadal data, we find some evidence that electricity availability has a significant effect on subsequent economic growth. However, much of the effect disappears once suitable controls are included. We examine various dimensions of electricity availability, including electricity consumption quantity, generation capacity, residential access rate, and quality of electricity supply. It appears that electricity availability is best viewed as something that can be scaled up as economies grow rather than something that imposes binding constraints on subsequent economic growth.
Q48|Fuel prices and road accident outcomes in New Zealand|Recent years have seen a spike in New Zealand’s road death toll, a phenomenon also seen in some other countries such as Australia. This paper analyses the short-run impact of fuel prices on road accident outcomes in New Zealand, including the numbers of road deaths, accidents, and injuries. Using data for the period 1989–2017, we find a negative relationship between fuel prices and key road-risk outcome variables, including the number of road deaths. There are similar results for models in levels and first differences. The number of serious injuries to cyclists tends to increase when fuel prices are high, however. Lower fuel prices appear to have contributed to New Zealand’s recent uptick in road accidents, pushing against the long-term trend of improved road safety.
Q48|Adoption of solar and wind energy: The roles of carbon pricing and aggregate policy support|This paper analyzes the roles of policies and preferences in national adoption of solar and wind energy technologies. We use cross-sectional and panel regressions for both the European Union and a broader international sample. We find that countries that price carbon emissions have gone on to adopt more solar and wind energy. The aggregate level of policy support, measured in euros per megawatt hour, appears to have been important for solar energy adoption. We also find that solar energy adoption has been larger in countries with higher proportions of people concerned about climate change. In addition, we assess the effects of other key explanators including financial system size and income levels.
Q48|The Impact of China’s Electricity Deregulation on Coal and Power Industries: Two-stage Game Modeling Approach|The regulated price mechanism in China’s power industry has attracted much criticism because of its incapability to optimize the allocation of resources. To build an “open, orderly, competitive and complete” power market system, the Chinese government launched an unprecedented marketization reform in 2015 to deregulate the electricity price. This paper examines the impact of the electricity price deregulation in the industry level. We first construct two-stage dynamic game models by taking the coal and coal-fired power industries as the players. Using the models, we compare analytically the equilibriums with and without electricity regulation, and examine the changes in electricity price, electricity generation, coal price and coal traded quantity. The theoretical analyses show that there are three intervals of the regulated electricity sales prices which influence the impact of electricity price deregulation. Next, we collect empirical data to estimate the parameters in the game models, and simulate the influence of electricity deregulation on the two industries in terms of market outcome and industrial profitability. Our results suggest that the actual regulated electricity price falls within the medium interval of the theoretical results, which means the price deregulation will result in higher electricity sales price but lower coal price, less coal traded amount and less electricity generation amount. The robustness analysis shows that our results hold with respect to the electricity generation efficiency and price elasticity of electricity demand.
Q48|Energy Price Reform in China| The Chinese leadership has determined to assign the market a decisive role in allocating resources. To have the market to play that role, getting the energy prices right is crucial because this sends clear signals to both producers and consumers of energy. While the overall trend of China’s energy pricing reform since 1984 has been moving away from the prices set by the central government in the centrally planned economy and towards a more market-oriented pricing mechanism, the pace and scale of the reform differ across energy types. This article discusses the evolution of price reforms for coal, petroleum products, natural gas, electricity and renewable power in China, and provides some analysis of these energy price reforms, in order to have the market to play a decisive role in allocating resources and help China’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
Q48|International and sectoral variation in industrial energy prices 1995–2015|Energy price rises for industry are a major political concern. Access to cheap energy is often considered a key factor for the competitiveness of industry. To enable international comparisons, and to foster further empirical research on the impacts of energy price or tax differentials on a wide range of outcomes, such as international trade and investment patterns, we construct sector level energy prices for 12 industrial sectors in 48 countries for the period 1995 to 2015. Our prices are constructed as weighted averages of fuel-specific prices by fuel consumption. We provide guidelines for the use of our energy price data, which is made available for download, as well as a set of stylized facts on major trends and variations, and illustrative applications.
Q48|Pricing Carbon Emissions In China|The review paper provides a strategy for determining carbon emissions pricing in China to guide how carbon emissions might be mitigated to reduce fossil fuel pollution. China has promoted the development of clean energy, including hydroelectric power, wind power, and solar energy generation. In order to involve companies in carbon emissions control, regional and provincial carbon markets have been established since 2013. As China’s carbon market is organized domestically, and not necessarily using market principles, there has been little research on China’s carbon price and volatility. This paper provides an introduction to China’s regional and provincial carbon markets, proposes how to establish a national market for pricing carbon emissions, discusses how and when these markets might be established, how they might perform, and the subsequent prices for China’s regional and national carbon markets. Power generation in manufacturing consumes more than other industries, with more than 40% of total coal consumption. Apart from manufacturing, the northern China heating system relies on fossil fuels, mainly coal, which causes serious pollution. In order to understand the regional markets well, it is necessary to analyze the energy structure in these regions. Coal is the primary energy source in China, so that provinces that rely heavily on coal receive a greater number of carbon emissions permits. In order to establish a national carbon market for China, a detailed analysis of eight important regional markets is presented. The four largest energy markets, namely, Guangdong, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hubei, traded around 82% of the total volume and 85% of the total value of the seven markets in 2017, as the industry structure of the western area is different from that of the east. The China National Development and Reform Commission has proposed a national carbon market, which can attract investors and companies to participate in carbon emissions trading.
Q48|Establishing national carbon emission prices for China|The purpose of the paper is to establish national carbon emissions prices for the People's Republic of China, which is one of the world's largest producers of carbon emissions. Several measures have been undertaken to address climate change in China, including the establishment of a carbon trading system. Since 2013, eight regional carbon emissions markets have been established, namely Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Shenzhen, Tianjin, Chongqing, Hubei and Fujian. The Central Government announced a national carbon emissions market, with power generation as the first industry to be considered. However, as carbon emissions prices in the eight regional markets are very different, for a variety of administrative reasons, it is essential to create a procedure for establishing a national carbon emissions price. The regional markets are pioneers, and their experience will play important roles in establishing a national carbon emissions market, with national prices based on regional prices, turnovers and volumes. The paper considers two sources of regional data for China's carbon allowances, which are based on primary and secondary data sources, and compares their relative strengths and weaknesses. The paper establishes national carbon emissions prices based on the primary and secondary regional prices, for the first time, and compares both national prices and regional prices against each other. The carbon emission prices in Hubei, Guangdong, Shenzhen and Tianjin are highly correlated with the national prices based on the primary and secondary sources. Establishing national carbon emissions prices should be very helpful for the national carbon emissions market that is under construction in China, as well as for other regions and countries worldwide.
Q48|Carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and economic growth: The historical decomposition evidence from G-7 countries|This paper investigates the relationship between carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and economic growth in the G-7 countries from a historical perspective. To this end, taking time varying interaction and business cycle into account, we use the historical decomposition method for the first time in the literature. Our results provide evidence that Canada, Italy, Japan and partly the United States need to sacrifice economic growth if they aim to reduce CO2 emissions by decreasing the fossil-based energy use. This situation is not valid since the early 1990s for France, throughout the analysis period for Germany and a few exceptions in all periods for the UK. Furthermore, empirical results provide evidence contrary to the EKC hypothesis for Canada, Germany, Japan, the UK and the US. We found BC-shaped and N-shaped curve for France and Italy, respectively. Although the EKC hypothesis is not valid for Germany and the UK, economic growth has no damaging effect on environmental quality. Also, this effect seems to be cyclical for the US. While the energy conservation theory is fully supported for Canada, it is strongly supported for France, Italy, Japan and the US with the exception of some periods. In addition to these findings, we find strong evidence to support the growth theory for all the G-7 countries.
Q48|Sector reforms and institutional corruption: Evidence from electricity industry in Sub-Saharan Africa|In order to reduce the influence of corruption on electricity sector performance, most Sub-Saharan African countries have implemented electricity sector reforms. However, after nearly two and half decades of reforms, there is no evidence whether the reforms have mitigated corruption. Neither is there evidence of performance improvement of the reforms in terms of technical, economic or welfare impact. This paper aims to fill this gap. We use a dynamic panel estimator with a novel panel data of 47 Sub-Saharan African countries from 2002 to 2013. We analyse the impact of corruption and two key aspects of electricity reforms – creations of independent regulatory agencies and private sector participation – on three key performance indicators: technical efficiency, access to electricity and income. We find that corruption can significantly reduce technical efficiency of the sector and constrain the efforts to increase access to electricity and national income. The adverse effects are reduced where independent regulatory agencies are established and privatisation is implemented. These findings suggest that well-designed reforms not only boost the performance of the sector directly, but also indirectly reduce the negative effects of macro level institutional deficiencies such as corruption on micro and macro performance indicators.
Q48|Storage Business Models: Lessons for Electricity from Natural Gas, Cloud Data and Frozen Food|The aim of this paper is to evaluate different well-established non-electrical storage markets (gas, frozen food and cloud storage) in order to identify relevant lessons for electrical energy storage (EES) connected to the electricity distribution networks. The case studies that have been evaluated are Centrica Storage (gas storage), Google Drive (cloud storage) and Oakland International (frozen food storage). A specific business model methodology has been selected for comparing the different business model components across these sectors. The methodology (following Johnson et al., 2008) refers to key interconnected components: customer value proposition, the revenue formula, key resources and key processes. The evaluation of the three case studies suggests that well-developed business models already exist in growing and mature storage markets. Regulation also plays an important role across the different storage markets and business model components, how-ever its importance varies depending on the type of market. Innovation in storage business models is also observed (technological and contractual) which should be also facilitated in EES. Innovation helps move markets towards more sustainable business models.
Q48|Stakeholder Views on Interactions between Low-carbon Policies and Carbon Markets in China: Lessons from the Guangdong ETS|China set up pilot Emission Trading Schemes (ETS) in seven cities and provinces from 2013 as a new instrument to incentivise carbon dioxide emission reduction and to reach its 40-45% carbon intensity reduction target by 2020. Using a two-stage survey (a closed-form questionnaire followed by open interviews), we elicit views of stakeholders from Guangdong province on carbon markets, with an emphasis on how ETS would interact with other existing or proposed low-carbon and clean energy policies. Our survey shows that academic stakeholders viewed the interactions between the carbon market and other lowcarbon policies as a significant potential problem but there was less awareness by stakeholders from other sectors. There is a positive correlation between recognising such policy interactions may pose a problem and the time spent working on energy saving and emission reduction policies. Whereas both increasing renewable targets and imposing a carbon tax in addition to an existing ETS would be expected to depress prices in the ETS, relatively few respondents identified this effect correctly. Apart from government respondents, all other stakeholders lacked confidence in China's carbon markets, which is associated with both their lack of knowledge and information about the market and concerns regarding uncertainties and government policy design. The need for learning from the pilot schemes particularly on monitoring, reporting and verification was seen as vital but challenging given the speed of rolling out a national ETS.
Q48|Trust in Government and Effective Nuclear Safety Governance in Great Britain|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|When is a carbon price floor desirable?|The EU carbon price lies well below estimates of the social cost of carbon and “target-consistent” carbon prices needed to deliver ambitious targets such as the 40% reduction target for 2030. In light of this, the UK introduced a carbon price floor (CPF) for its electricity sector in 2013 and the new Dutch Government has recently made a similar commitment, while successive French Governments have called for an EU-wide CPF. This paper analyzes the impacts and design of a power-sector CPF, both at the EU and national level, using a political-economy approach. We find a good case for introducing such a price-based instrument into the EU ETS. We suggest that a CPF should be designed to “top up” the EUA price to €25–30/tCO2, rising annually at 3–5% above inflation, at least until 2030. We argue that the new EU Market Stability Reserve enhances the value of a CPF in terms of delivering climate benefits, and discuss the potential for a regional CPF in North-West Europe. We also review international experience with price floors (and ceilings).
Q48|Economic dispatch in the electricity sector in China: potential benefits and challenges ahead|Unlike the economic dispatch used in most power systems, electricity system dispatch currently used in China is an equal share approach. This form of dispatch has been criticized for its negative influence on system operations, worsening energy security, environmental sustainability and affordability problems. To contribute to on-going electricity market reform discussions, our study employs an optimization model to quantify the economic dispatch savings in the coal-fired power sector. We offer three major findings. First, the heat rates of coal generators in China in 2014 ranged from 273.91 gce/kWh to 348.38 gce/kWh units and as a result of these large differences among generators in different regions, implementing economic (merit order) dispatch will bring economic and environmental benefits. Second, we identify three major political and economic challenges, which hinder the transition from the current dispatch model, namely (i) current running hours are insufficient for cost recovery, (ii) limited cross-border trading due to electricity over-supply and local protectionism, and (iii) political economy problems from generators of different ownership types. Finally, 5.67% of coal used in power generation could be saved if economic dispatch was employed at the provincial level, the value of which equals 0.05% of Chinese GDP in 2014.
Q48|Reactive Power Procurement: Lessons from Three Leading Countries|This paper explores the international experience in the procurement of reactive power and related electricity ancillary services. It involves system operators from different jurisdictions including Australia, the United States and Great Britain. The paper evaluates the different procurement mechanisms and related compensation schemes. In addition, it also appraises a novel approach (from the Power Potential initiative in the UK) for contracting reactive power services from distributed energy resources (DERs) using a market-based mechanism. The conceptual auction design applicable to the procurement of reactive power is also discussed. Our findings suggest that competition in reactive power is very limited in comparison with other ancillary services such as frequency regulation and capacity reserves. The introduction of more market oriented mechanisms for acquiring reactive and active power services by the system operator opens new opportunities and new ways to deal with voltage stability issues. Power Potential trails a technical and commercial solution, new market roles and the new interactions required in the introduction of a competitive reactive power market.
Q48|China's Response to Nuclear Safety Post-Fukushima: Genuine or Rhetoric?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q48|The Incidence of Coarse Certification: Evidence from the ENERGY STAR Program|A coarse certification provides simple, but incomplete information about quality. Its main rationale is to help consumers trade off dimensions of quality that are complex and lack salience. In imperfectly competitive markets, it may induce excess bunching at the certification requirement, crowd out high quality, and facilitate price discrimination. Who will ultimately benefit from a coarse certification thus depends on the degree of market power firms can exercise as well as on consumers’ sophistication in responding to such information. This paper illustrates these insights using the ENERGY STAR certification program as a case study. I investigate the incidence of the program with a structural econometric model of the U.S. appliance market. I find that the certification can crowd out energy efficiency, make consumers worst off, and have small, but heterogenous impacts on firms’ profits. In this context, the certification tends to not be welfare-improving. This conclusion, however, crucially depends on the market environment and the design of the policy - in scenarios where energy prices are low, or the certification requirement is very stringent, the ES program can be welfare-improving.
Q48|Bunching with the Stars: How Firms Respond to Environmental Certification|This paper shows that firms respond strategically to ENERGY STAR, a voluntary certification program for energy-efficient products. Firms offer products that bunch at the certification requirement, differentiate certified products in energy and non-energy dimensions, and charge a price premium on certified products. In the US refrigerator market, the magnitude of the price premium corresponds exactly to the average willingness to pay consumers have for certified products. This suggests that firms have the ability to extract most of the consumer surplus associated with certified products. If firms had to pay a fee to use the certification, a policy recently suggested, most of the cost should then be borne by consumers. I illustrate how such policy would impact the adoption of energy-efficient appliances.
Q48|Effectiveness of renewable energy subsidies in a CO2 intensive electricity system|Can subsidies to renewable energy effectively internalise CO2 costs in electricity production? Under current policy design it only matters that the replaced energy is dirty, but not how dirty it is. We use a modified peak-load pricing model, including variable renewable generators and the external costs of carbon, to examine the way in which a unit subsidy to variable renewables cannot restore first best optimum. In our model, electricity is generated using a combination of three technology types: two dispatchable, thermal, and CO2 emitting technologies, differing in their emission intensity, and a non-dispatchable renewable technology. We show that available wind capacity is never idle, and derive equations determining optimal installed capacities for all technologies. We then describe the mechanism by which a subsidy that does not discriminate between dirty energies fails to restore first best. Our analysis highlights the importance of a carbon price: even one below the social cost of carbon could have a corrective effect on the merit order of fossil fuels and improve the effectiveness of a subsidy.
Q48|On the power of indicators: how the choice of the fuel poverty measure affects the identification of the target population|We propose a critical analysis of fuel poverty indicators and demonstrate that choosing a given fuel poverty indicator and, in particular, its threshold level, is central to the identification of the fuel-poor population. First, we conducted an inter-indicator analysis to show how profiles of fuel-poor households vary depending on the indicator selected. More specifically, after identifying groups of affected house- holds using a set of objective and subjective measures, we designed a multidimensional approach based on a combination of complementary methods, namely, a multiple correspondence analysis and a hierarchical and partitioning clustering analysis to analyse their characteristics. Through this framework, we highlight the difficulty of identifying a “typical profile” for fuel-poor households because of the significant variability in their characteristics and we show that the composition of the population depends on the choice of the indicator. Second, we applied an intra-indicator analysis using two objective expenditure-based indicators with thresholds. In particular, we conducted a sensitivity analysis based on a logit model including variables describing household and dwelling characteristics. We show that the profiles of fuel-poor households as well as the drivers of fuel poverty vary considerably with the chosen threshold level. Given these findings, we stress the need to review how we currently rely on conventional fuel poverty indicators to identify affected groups and give some recommendations.
Q48|From residential energy demand to fuel poverty: income-induced non-linearities in the reactions of households to energy price fluctuations|The residential energy demand is growing steadily and the trend is expected to continue in the near future. At the same time, under the impulse of economic crises and environmental and energy policies, many households have experienced reductions in real income and higher energy prices. In the residential sector, the number of fuel-poor households is thus expected to rise. A better understanding of the determinants of residential energy demand, in particular of the role of income and the sensitivity of households to changes in energy prices, is crucial in the context of recurrent debates on energy efficiency and fuel poverty. We propose a panel threshold regression (PTR) model to empirically test the sensitivity of French households to energy price fluctuations Ð as measured by the elasticity of residential heating energy prices Ð and to analyze the overlap between their income and fuel poverty profiles. The PTR model allows to test for the non-linear effect of income on the reactions of households to fluctuations in energy prices. Thus, it can identify specific regimes differing by their level of estimated price elasticities. Each regime represents an elasticity-homogeneous group of households. The number of these regimes is determined based on an endogenously PTR-fixed income threshold. Thereafter, we analyze the composition of the regimes (i.e. groups) to locate the dominant proportion of fuel-poor households and analyse their monetary poverty characteristics. Results show that, depending on the income level, we can identify two groups of households that react differently to residential energy price fluctuations and that fuel-poor households belong mostly to the group of households with the highest elasticity. By extension, results also show that income poverty does not necessarily mean fuel poverty. In terms of public policy, we suggest focusing on income heterogeneity by considering different groups of households separately when defining energy efficiency measures. We also suggest paying particular attention to targeting fuel-poor households by examining the overlap between fuel and income poverty.
Q48|From residential energy demand to fuel poverty: income-induced non-linearities in the reactions of households to energy price fluctuations|The residential energy demand is growing steadily and the trend is expected to continue in the near future. At the same time, under the impulse of economic crises and environmental and energy policies, many households have experienced reductions in real income and higher energy prices. In the residential sector, the number of fuel-poor households is thus expected to rise. A better understanding of the determinants of residential energy demand, in particular of the role of income and the sensitivity of households to changes in energy prices, is crucial in the context of recurrent debates on energy efficiency and fuel poverty. We propose a panel threshold regression (PTR) model to empirically test the sensitivity of French households to energy price fluctuations Ð as measured by the elasticity of residential heating energy prices Ð and to analyze the overlap between their income and fuel poverty profiles. The PTR model allows to test for the non-linear effect of income on the reactions of households to fluctuations in energy prices. Thus, it can identify specific regimes differing by their level of estimated price elasticities. Each regime represents an elasticity-homogeneous group of households. The number of these regimes is determined based on an endogenously PTR-fixed income threshold. Thereafter, we analyze the composition of the regimes (i.e. groups) to locate the dominant proportion of fuel-poor households and analyse their monetary poverty characteristics. Results show that, depending on the income level, we can identify two groups of households that react differently to residential energy price fluctuations and that fuel-poor households belong mostly to the group of households with the highest elasticity. By extension, results also show that income poverty does not necessarily mean fuel poverty. In terms of public policy, we suggest focusing on income heterogeneity by considering different groups of households separately when defining energy efficiency measures. We also suggest paying particular attention to targeting fuel-poor households by examining the overlap between fuel and income poverty.
Q48|Marchés internationaux de droits à polluer et taxes locales sur les biens polluants|The interest of international markets for pollution rights lies in their potential to achieve a pollution reduction objective in an efficient manner. Unfortunately, the tendency of participating countries to tax polluting goods locally undermines this potential. We propose a model to examine the interest of countries participating in a market for rights to pollute in taxing the good that generates pollution. In particular, this interest depends on the initial distribution of rights among participating countries. We show how rights should be allocated to the different participating countries in order to ensure market efficiency. These optimal allocations require that a sufficiently large fraction of rights be distributed free of charge rather than auctioned.
Q48|Prediction is difficult, even when it's about the past: a hindcast experiment using Res-IRF, an integrated energy-economy model|Model-based projections of energy demand are hardly ever confronted with observations. This shortfall threatens the credibility policy-makers might attach to integrated energy-economy models. One reason for it is the lack of historical data against which to calibrate models, a prerequisite for attempting to replicate past trends. In this paper, we (i) assemble piecemeal historical data to reconstruct the energy performance of the residential building stock of 1984 in France; (ii) calibrate Res-IRF, a bottom-up model of residential energy demand in France, against these data and run it to 2012. In a preliminary simulation that only considers the data that were known at the beginning of the simulated period, we find that the model accurately predicts energy consumption per m² aggregated over all dwelling types, with a Mean Absolute Percentage Error below 1.5% and 85% of the variance explained. These figures reach 0.5% and 96% when we consider the best-fit of 1,920 scenarios covering the uncertainty surrounding the parameters of the initial year. Energy demand is unevenly well replicated across fuels, which reveals some limitations in the ability of the model to capture politically-driven trends such as the expansion of the natural-gas distribution network. The overall results however build confidence in the general accuracy of the Res-IRF model. We discuss the directions for data collection which would ease comparison between simulations and observations in future hindcast experiments.?
Q48|Impact of German Energiewende on transmission lines in the Central European region|The impacts of renewable energy production and German nuclear phase-out on the electricity transmission systems in Central Europe is investigated with focus on the disparity between the growth of renewable production and the pace at which new electricity transmission lines have been built, especially in Germany. This imbalance endangers the system stability and reliability in the whole region. The assessment of these impacts on the transmission grid is analysed by the direct current load flow model ELMOD. Two scenarios for the year 2025 are evaluated from different perspectives. The distribution of loads in the grids is shown. Hourly patterns are analysed. Geographical decomposition is made, and problematic regions are identified. The high solar or wind power generation decrease the periods of very low transmission load and increase the mid- and high load on the transmission lines. High solar feed-in has less detrimental impacts on the transmission grid than high wind feed-in. High wind feed-in burdens the transmission lines in the north-south direction in Germany and water-pump-storage areas in Austria.
Q48|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation| This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q48|An Auction Story: How Simple Bids Struggle with Uncertainty|Short-term electricity markets are key to an efficient production by generation units. We develop a two-period model to assess different bidding formats to determine for each bidding format the optimal bidding strategy of competitive generators facing price-uncertainty. We compare the results for simple bidding, block bidding and multi-part bidding and find that even under optimal simple and block bidding generators face the risk of ex-post suboptimal solutions, whereas in multi-part bidding these do not occur. This points to efficiency gains of multi-part bidding in the presence of uncertainty in electricity markets.
Q48|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and stakeholders survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyses the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration and main studied topics. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues and social aspects. The paper concludes on the policy implications of the mentioned results. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. Some recurring lacks though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policy makers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q48|Modelling German electricity wholesale spot prices with a parsimonious fundamental model â€“ Validation and application|Increasing shares of fluctuating renewable energy, the integration of European electricity grids and markets as well as new technologies induce continuous change in the European energy system. Due to these changes, fundamental electricity system and market models that have been developed and applied in the past are dealing with an increasing number of details inducing correspondingly huge data needs. The complexity of these called parameter-rich models (cf. Weron, 2014) leads to limited transparency, also on the impact of data on results, and makes model backtesting rather cumbersome. At the same time, the validity of future scenarios based on non-validated models is dubious. To complement these highly complicated models, more reduced models may be helpful both for transparency and for backtesting. In this paper, we apply a parsimonious fundamental modelling approach to determine hourly German day-ahead power market prices and production volumes. The methodology approximates the supply stack by a piecewise linear function and considers fundamental information, e.g. power plant capacities and availabilities, fuel prices, must-run production and cross-border exchange. We reduce complexity by considering technology classes, uncoupled time periods and only one market area. Between 2011 and 2015, German day-ahead prices declined by 38% and various reasons have been identified in literature, namely a drop in emission certificate prices, the expansion of renewable energies (RES) or lower fuel prices. However, the decision of the German government to shut down nuclear power plants after the Fukushima nuclear disaster happened at the same time and received too little attention as it rather by itself could have led to an increase in prices. The parsimonious model is able to reproduce the hourly historical prices (2011-2015) with a MAE of 5.6 â‚¬/MWh and accurately reproduces the electricity production volumes for most thermal production units. In a case study, we investigate a counterfactual scenario without accelerated nuclear phase-out in Germany after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011. The results indicate that German day-ahead power prices would have fallen by additional 3 â‚¬/MWh if the nuclear phase-out would have not occurred. Since coal- and gas-fired production as well as additional imports have substituted production from nuclear power plants, their usage would have dropped in the counterfactual scenario.
Q48|Investment versus Output Subsidies: Implications of Alternative Incentives for Wind Energy|This paper examines the choice between subsidizing investment or output to promote socially desirable production. We exploit a natural experiment in which wind farm developers could choose an investment or an output subsidy to estimate the impact of these policy instruments on productivity. Using instrumental variables and matching estimators, we find that wind farms claiming the investment subsidy produced 10 to 12 percent less power than wind farms claiming the output subsidy, and that this effect reflects subsidy incentives rather than selection. Introducing investment subsidies caused the Federal government to spend 14 percent more per unit of output from wind farms.
Q48|Policy Evolution under the Clean Air Act|The U.S. Clean Air Act, passed in 1970 with strong bipartisan support, was the first environmental law to give the Federal government a serious regulatory role, established the architecture of the U.S. air pollution control system, and became a model for subsequent environmental laws in the United States and globally. We outline the Act’s key provisions, as well as the main changes Congress has made to it over time. We assess the evolution of air pollution control policy under the Clean Air Act, with particular attention to the types of policy instruments used. We provide a generic assessment of the major types of policy instruments, and we trace and assess the historical evolution of EPA’s policy instrument use, with particular focus on the increased use of market-based policy instruments, beginning in the 1970s and culminating in the 1990s. Over the past fifty years, air pollution regulation has gradually become much more complex, and over the past twenty years, policy debates have become increasingly partisan and polarized, to the point that it has become impossible to amend the Act or pass other legislation to address the new threat of climate change.
Q48|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q48|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while commandand-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q48|Internal and External Barriers to Energy Efficiency: Made-to-Measure Policy Interventions|This paper has two objectives. First it provides a correlation between internal and external barriers to energy efficiency and consumer behaviour related to two domains. It evaluates behaviour related to energy curtailment, which represents routine, repetitive effort to decrease consumption on a day-to-day basis. It also considers behaviour related to investments, which are one time actions such as purchasing new energy efficiency technologies.. Second, it assesses the effectiveness of the different interventions and programs in addressing the two types of barriers (internal and external) with the aim of informing the policy debate. By assessing the value of a large number of interventions, this paper is one of the first that combines in a unified framework the main findings of different disciplines, from economics to psychology.
Q48|Energy price reform in China|China has determined to assign the market a decisive role in allocating resources. To that end, getting energy prices right is crucial because this sends clear signals to both producers and consumers of energy. While the overall trend of China’s energy pricing reform since 1984 has been moving away from the prices set by the central government in the centrally planned economy and towards a more market-oriented pricing mechanism, the pace and scale of the reform differ across energy types. This article discusses the evolution of price reforms for coal, petroleum products, natural gas, electricity and renewable power in China, and provides some analysis of these energy price reforms, in order to allow the market to play a decisive role in resource allocation and help China’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
Q48|Power Sector Reform and Corruption: Evidence from Electricity Industry in Sub-Saharan Africa|We analyse the impact of corruption and two key aspects of electricity sector reforms, such as the creation of independent regulatory agencies and private sector participation, on several performance indicators in Sub-Saharan Africa. We find that corruption reduces technical efficiency of the sector and constrains the efforts to increase access to electricity and national income. However, some negative effects are offset where independent regulators are established and privatisation is implemented. Our findings suggest that well-designed reforms not only boost economic performance of the sector, but also reduce the negative effects of macro-level institutional deficiencies, such as corruption, on performance indicators.
Q48|Storage Business Models: Lessons for Electricity from Natural Gas, Cloud Data and Frozen Food|The aim of this paper is to evaluate different well-established non-electrical storage markets (gas, frozen food and cloud storage) in order to identify relevant lessons for electrical energy storage (EES) connected to the electricity distribution networks. The case studies that have been evaluated are Centrica Storage (gas storage), Google Drive (cloud storage) and Oakland International (frozen food storage). A specific business model methodology has been selected for comparing the different business model components across these sectors. The methodology (following Johnson et al., 2008) refers to key interconnected components: customer value proposition, the revenue formula, key resources and key processes. The evaluation of the three case studies suggests that well-developed business models already exist in growing and mature storage markets. Regulation also plays an important role across the different storage markets and business model components, how-ever its importance varies depending on the type of market. Innovation in storage business models is also observed (technological and contractual) which should be also facilitated in EES. Innovation helps move markets towards more sustainable business models.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Stakeholder Views on Interactions between Low-carbon Policies and Carbon Markets in China: Lessons from the Guangdong ETS|China set up pilot Emission Trading Schemes (ETS) in seven cities and provinces from 2013 as a new instrument to incentivise carbon dioxide emission reduction and to reach its 40-45% carbon intensity reduction target by 2020. Using a two-stage survey (a closed-form questionnaire followed by open interviews), we elicit views of stakeholders from Guangdong province on carbon markets, with an emphasis on how ETS would interact with other existing or proposed low-carbon and clean energy policies. Our survey shows that academic stakeholders viewed the interactions between the carbon market and other lowcarbon policies as a significant potential problem but there was less awareness by stakeholders from other sectors. There is a positive correlation between recognising such policy interactions may pose a problem and the time spent working on energy saving and emission reduction policies. Whereas both increasing renewable targets and imposing a carbon tax in addition to an existing ETS would be expected to depress prices in the ETS, relatively few respondents identified this effect correctly. Apart from government respondents, all other stakeholders lacked confidence in China's carbon markets, which is associated with both their lack of knowledge and information about the market and concerns regarding uncertainties and government policy design. The need for learning from the pilot schemes particularly on monitoring, reporting and verification was seen as vital but challenging given the speed of rolling out a national ETS.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Trust in Government and Effective Nuclear Safety Governance in Great Britain|Nuclear power can play a role in reducing CO2 emissions and improving energy security. Public attitudes to nuclear safety governance will be critical in whether a large-scale rollout of nuclear power will be successful, so we commissioned a survey of 1,007 members of the British public to understand the determinants of such views. In particular, we focus on the role of trust in government, which has been largely neglected as a subject of study. We find that higher risk perceptions of new nuclear power technologies is associated with lower overall government trustworthiness, while higher engagement levels, being male and intentions to vote Conservative increase trustworthiness. Risk perceptions towards old and the new nuclear technologies do not differ significantly, which raises questions about the view that newer defence-in-depth nuclear technologies can reduce public fear of nuclear power. To build public trust, the UK government must demonstrate its trustworthiness in nuclear safety governance, especially along the dimensions of integrity, reliability and openness. Further, improving stakeholder engagement and thus increasing the levels of public satisfaction towards the government are necessary. Our novel research methodology of determining government trustworthiness in relation to public risk perceptions, technical knowledge, and stakeholder engagement is more broadly applicable and can be transferred to other subject areas and to countries where public concerns over nuclear safety and energy security are significant.
Q48|When is a carbon price floor desirable?|The EU carbon price lies well below estimates of the social cost of carbon and “target-consistent” carbon prices needed to deliver ambitious targets such as the 40% reduction target for 2030. In light of this, the UK introduced a carbon price floor (CPF) for its electricity sector in 2013 and the new Dutch Government has recently made a similar commitment, while successive French Governments have called for an EU-wide CPF. This paper analyzes the impacts and design of a power-sector CPF, both at the EU and national level, using a political-economy approach. We find a good case for introducing such a price-based instrument into the EU ETS. We suggest that a CPF should be designed to “top up” the EUA price to €25–30/tCO2, rising annually at 3–5% above inflation, at least until 2030. We argue that the new EU Market Stability Reserve enhances the value of a CPF in terms of delivering climate benefits, and discuss the potential for a regional CPF in North-West Europe. We also review international experience with price floors (and ceilings).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Economic dispatch in the electricity sector in China: potential benefits and challenges ahead|Unlike the economic dispatch used in most power systems, electricity system dispatch currently used in China is an equal share approach. This form of dispatch has been criticized for its negative influence on system operations, worsening energy security, environmental sustainability and affordability problems. To contribute to on-going electricity market reform discussions, our study employs an optimization model to quantify the economic dispatch savings in the coal-fired power sector. We offer three major findings. First, the heat rates of coal generators in China in 2014 ranged from 273.91 gce/kWh to 348.38 gce/kWh units and as a result of these large differences among generators in different regions, implementing economic (merit order) dispatch will bring economic and environmental benefits. Second, we identify three major political and economic challenges, which hinder the transition from the current dispatch model, namely (i) current running hours are insufficient for cost recovery, (ii) limited cross-border trading due to electricity over-supply and local protectionism, and (iii) political economy problems from generators of different ownership types. Finally, 5.67% of coal used in power generation could be saved if economic dispatch was employed at the provincial level, the value of which equals 0.05% of Chinese GDP in 2014.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|Reactive Power Procurement: Lessons from Three Leading Countries|This paper explores the international experience in the procurement of reactive power and related electricity ancillary services. It involves system operators from different jurisdictions including Australia, the United States and Great Britain. The paper evaluates the different procurement mechanisms and related compensation schemes. In addition, it also appraises a novel approach (from the Power Potential initiative in the UK) for contracting reactive power services from distributed energy resources (DERs) using a market-based mechanism. The conceptual auction design applicable to the procurement of reactive power is also discussed. Our findings suggest that competition in reactive power is very limited in comparison with other ancillary services such as frequency regulation and capacity reserves. The introduction of more market oriented mechanisms for acquiring reactive and active power services by the system operator opens new opportunities and new ways to deal with voltage stability issues. Power Potential trails a technical and commercial solution, new market roles and the new interactions required in the introduction of a competitive reactive power market.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|China’s Response to Nuclear Safety Post-Fukushima: Genuine or Rhetoric?|The Fukushima crisis has brought the nuclear safety problem to the world’s attention. China is the most ambitious country in the world in nuclear power development. How China perceives and responds to nuclear safety issues carries significant implications on its citizens’ safety and security. This paper examines the Chinese government’s promised and actual response to nuclear safety following the Fukushima crisis, based on (1) statistical analysis of newspaper coverage on nuclear energy, and (2) review of nuclear safety performance and safety governance. Our analysis shows that (i) the Chinese government’s concern over nuclear accidents and safety has surged significantly after Fukushima, (ii) China has displayed strengths in reactor technology design and safety operation, and (iii) China’s safety governance has been continuously challenged by institutional fragmentation, inadequate transparency, inadequate safety professionals, weak safety culture, and ambition to increase nuclear capacity by three-fold by 2050. We suggest that China should improve its nuclear safety standards, as well as safety management and monitoring, reform institutional arrangements to reduce fragmentation, improve information transparency, and public trust and participation, strengthen the safety culture, introduce process-based safety regulations, and promote international collaboration to ensure that China’s response to nuclear safety can be fully implemented in real-life.
Q48|Addressing the Climate Problem: Choice between Allowances, Feed-in Tariffs and Taxes|Instruments chosen to pursue climate related targets are not always efficient. In this paper we consider an economy with three climate related targets for its electricity generation: a given share of “green” electricity, a given expansion of “green” electricity, and a given reduction of “black” (fossil based) electricity. At its disposal the country has three instruments: an allowance system (tradable green certificates), a subsidy system (feed-in tariffs) and a Pigouvian fossil tax. Each of these instruments may be used to attain any of the given targets. Within the setting of the model it is verified that each kind of the target has only a single efficient instrument under certainty, and that there is a deadweight loss of using other instruments to achieve the target. Similarly, there is also an analysis of instrument choice when several targets are to be attained at the same time. The paper also discusses the case of simultaneous targets as well as the relevance of the various targets.
Q48|The Rise and Fall of Bioenergy|If bioenergy has a less negative impact on the climate than fossil energy, it may be optimal to have a significant increase in the use of bioenergy over time. Due to the difference in the way the climate is affected by the two types of energy, the future time path of the use of bioenergy may be non-monotonic: It may be optimal to first have an increase in its use, and later a reduction. Optimal taxes and subsidies are derived both for the first-best case and for the case of a constraint on the size of the fossil tax.
Q48|An Economic Anatomy of Optimal Climate Policy|This paper introduces geoengineering into an optimal control model of climate change economics. Together with mitigation and adaptation, carbon and solar geoengineering span the universe of possible climate policies. We show in the context of our model that: (i) a carbon tax is the optimal response to the unpriced carbon externality only if it equals the marginal cost of carbon geoengineering; (ii) the introduction of solar geoengineering leads to higher emissions yet lower tempera- tures, and, thus, increased welfare; and (iii) solar geoengineering,in effect, is a public goods version of adaptation that also lowers temperatures.
Q48|Carbon Prices are Redundant in the 2030 EU Climate and Energy Policy Package|In June 2018, an agreement between key EU institutions – the Commission, the European Parliament, and the European Council – was reached after a long-lasting discourse over the 2030 EU climate and energy policy package. This paper offers a comprehensive assessment of the EU package, with its three main targets: lower greenhouse gas emissions, higher renewable share in final energy consumption, and improved energy efficiency. We find that the renewable and energy-efficiency targets have been set so high that the derived emissions reduction exceeds the EU climate target. Hence, carbon prices are redundant in reaching the EU climate goal. This policy, however, is not cost efficient.
Q48|Who (Else) Benefits from Electricity Deregulation? Coal prices, natural gas and price discrimination|The movement to deregulate major industries over the past 40 years has produced large efficiency gains. However, distributional effects have been more difficult to assess. In the electricity sector, deregulation has vastly increased information available to market participants through the formation of wholesale markets. We test whether upstream suppliers, specifically railroads that transport coal from mines to power plants, use this information to capture economic rents that would otherwise accrue to electricity generators. Using natural gas prices as a proxy for generators' surplus, we find railroads charge higher markups when rents are larger. This effect is larger for deregulated plants, highlighting an important distributional impact of deregulation. This also means policies that change fuel prices can have substantially different effects on downstream consumers in regulated and deregulated markets.
Q48|Climate Policy and Resource Extraction with Variable Markups and Imperfect Substitute|We develop a resource extraction model that features imperfect substitution and endogenous market power. We analytically characterize the effect of anticipated future demand shocks on the resource extraction path and show that endogenous market power can dampen the adverse consequences of climate policies due to intertemporal carbon leakages compared to the perfect or monopolistic competition benchmarks. Next, we show that under constant elasticity of substitution between alternative energy resources, resource owner's current market share and reserves-to-extraction ratio are sufficient statistics to calculate the degree of intertemporal leakage. Applying data on OPEC, we find a minor increase in current extraction due to an anticipated increase in the productivity of alternative energy technologies.
Q48|Policies for decarbonizing a liberalized power sector|Given the agreed urgency of decarbonizing electricity and the need to guide decentralized private decisions, an adequate and credible carbon price appears essential. The paper models and quantifies the break-even carbon price for mature zero-carbon electricity investments. It appears an attractive alternative given the difficulty of measuring the social cost of carbon, but modelling shows it extremely sensitive to projected fuel prices, the rate of interest, and the capital cost of generation options, all of which are very uncertain. This has important implications, and justifies combining a carbon price floor with suitable long-term contracts for electricity investments.
Q48|Internal and External Barriers to Energy Efficiency: Made-to-Measure Policy Interventions| This paper has two objectives. First it provides a correlation between internal and external barriers to energy efficiency and consumer behaviour related to two domains. It evaluates behaviour related to energy curtailment, which represents routine, repetitive effort to decrease consumption on a day-to-day basis. It also considers behaviour related to investments, which are one time actions such as purchasing new energy efficiency technologies.. Second, it assesses the effectiveness of the different interventions and programs in addressing the two types of barriers (internal and external) with the aim of informing the policy debate. By assessing the value of a large number of interventions, this paper is one of the first that combines in a unified framework the main findings of different disciplines, from economics to psychology.
Q48|The Changing Role of Natural Gas in Nigeria|Nigeria is richly endowed with energy resources, and the Government has been making large profits from their export. However, windfall revenues have also been affecting the Government’s responsiveness and accountability towards the people and they have brought it into collusive relationship with international oil and gas companies operating in the country. A skewed distribution of petroleum resources costs and benefits, as well as the dependence on exports exposing the public finances to volatility in the international markets have represented further major issues. As a result, energy access and power generation still represent urgent issues for action in the country. Solid biomass accounts for 74% of the primary energy consumption, while the electrification rate stands at 34% in rural areas. Active power plants are mainly gas-fired, but they face capacity, maintenance, and financial constraints. While historically natural gas has been disregarded or flared into the atmosphere because it was considered a by-product of oil due to lacking market conditions and processing capacity, today the development of a domestic market for natural gas is seen as a key priority to guarantee energy security and boost industrial development in Nigeria. A more efficient and equitable governance of the sector and management of export revenues can play a major role in this sense. In this context, this paper highlights the main current issues and underpins key policy conditions for this transition to take place in Nigeria.
Q48|The Impact of China’s Electricity Deregulation on Coal and Power Industries: Two-stage Game Modeling Approach| The regulated price mechanism in China’s power industry has attracted much criticism because of its incapability to optimize the allocation of resources. To build an “open, orderly, competitive and complete” power market system, the Chinese government launched an unprecedented marketization reform in 2015 to deregulate the electricity price. This paper examines the impact of the electricity price deregulation in the industry level. We first construct two-stage dynamic game models by taking the coal and coal-fired power industries as the players. Using the models, we compare analytically the equilibriums with and without electricity regulation, and examine the changes in electricity price, electricity generation, coal price and coal traded quantity. The theoretical analyses show that there are three intervals of the regulated electricity sales prices which influence the impact of electricity price deregulation. Next, we collect empirical data to estimate the parameters in the game models, and simulate the influence of electricity deregulation on the two industries in terms of market outcome and industrial profitability. Our results suggest that the actual regulated electricity price falls within the medium interval of the theoretical results, which means the price deregulation will result in higher electricity sales price but lower coal price, less coal traded amount and less electricity generation amount. The robustness analysis shows that our results hold with respect to the electricity generation efficiency and price elasticity of electricity demand.
Q48|Effects of State Taxation on Investment: Evidence from the Oil Industry|We provide theoretical and empirical evidence that firms do not in general respond equally to changes in prices and taxes in the setting of oil well drilling in the United States. Our key theoretical contribution is that in a multi-state model, a change in output price changes both the benefit and opportunity cost of drilling, whereas a change in a state tax rate only changes the benefit of drilling in that state. Thus, a firm responds more to a change in tax than a change in price. Our econometric results support this theoretical prediction. We find that a one dollar per barrel increase in price leads to a 1 percent increase in wells drilled, but a one dollar per barrel increase in tax leads to at least an 8 percent decrease in wells drilled. These estimates correspond to elasticities of about 0.5 and -0.3, respectively. These results are robust to interstate spillovers, other state regulations, and econometric specification. They imply that using state tax rate decreases to incentivize investment may lead to losses of government revenue.
Q48|Unintended technology-bias in corporate income taxation: The case of electricity generation in the low-carbon transition|This paper shows that corporate tax provisions can lead to different effective tax rates (ETRs) if there is a capital cost-intensive and a variable cost-intensive way of producing the same output. It develops a framework for analysing sources of the difference in ETRs and adapts existing models to compare forward-looking ETRs for low-carbon and high-carbon electricity generation technologies, considering tax provisions for cost recovery in 36 countries. It finds that standard tax systems are technology neutral when investments are debt-financed because the deductibility of interest payments compensates for the fact that capital allowances are based on nominal (rather than real) capital costs. Under equity finance, ETRs are higher for investments in capital-cost-intensive technologies as the cost of equity finance is often not deductible. Since low-carbon electricity generation tends to be relatively capital-intensive, this result represents a form of unintentional misalignment of the corporate tax system with decarbonisation objectives,.
Q48|Leveraging the Smart Grid: The Effect of Real-Time Information on Consumer Decisions|This report reviews the literature on the impact of real-time information provision on consumer decision-making. In addition, it describes the results of a study in which about 7000 households in Ontario, Canada were provided with in-home displays linked to smart meters that provided real-time feedback on electricity consumption. The results show that electricity consumption declines by about 3% as a result of information feedback, that the reduction in demand is sustained for at least five months, and that it is highly correlated with outdoor temperature.
Q48|State-Owned Enterprises and the Low-Carbon Transition|This paper explores the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the low-carbon transition in OECD and G20 countries. It tracks GHG emissions and energy investments by SOEs and analyses the impact of SOEs on investments in renewable electricity. A descriptive analysis of SOEs’ role in the electricity sector shows the continued importance of SOEs, including prominent investments in both renewables and fossil-fuel-based electricity generation..
Q48|OECD Progress Update on Approaches to Mobilising Institutional Investment for Sustainable Infrastructure|The large need for investments in sustainable infrastructure will require investments from the private sector, including institutional investors. This working paper contributes to scaling up investments by analysing public project-level interventions for projects involving institutional investors. It presents findings from an updated database on institutional investments in environmentally sustainable infrastructure with project-level intervention by the public sector.
Q48|Power struggle: Decarbonising the electricity sector|This report investigates the effects of select climate policies, non-climate policies, as well as political economy factors on the decarbonisation of electricity in OECD countries from 2000 to 2015. Effects are analysed on the three phases of decarbonisation: (1) increasing the share of renewables installed, (2) increasing the use of renewables in generation, and (3) reducing the emissions from electricity.
Q48|Pass-Through as a Test for Market Power: An Application to Solar Subsidies|We formalize pass-through over-shifting as a simple yet under-utilized test for market power. We apply this test in the market for solar energy. Specifically, we estimate the pass-through of solar subsidies to solar system prices using rich micro-level transaction and subsidy data from California. Buyers of solar systems capture nearly the full subsidy, while there is more-than- complete pass-through to lessees. We conclude that solar markets are imperfectly competitive by ruling out alternative explanations for over-shifting, and reinforce this conclusion with a test of solar demand curvature. This procedure can serve to detect market power beyond the solar market.
Q48|A Comparison of Multi-step GDP Forecasts for South Africa|To forecast at several, say h, periods into the future, a modeller faces two techniques: iterating one-step ahead forecasts (the IMS technique) or directly modeling the relation betwen observations separated by an h-period interval and using it for forecasting (DMS forecasting). It is known that structural breaks, unit-root non-stationarity and residual autocorrelation benefit DMS accuracy in finite samples, all of which occuring when modelling the South African GDP over the last thirty years. This paper analyzes the forecasting properties of the model developed by Aron and Muellbauer (2002) and compares with them that of 30 derived or competing models. We find that the GDP of South Africa is best forecast, 4 quarters ahead, using the technique developed by these authors and its variants as derived in the present paper. Rankings of other models vary over time and it is difficult to recommend one of them as a rule in this exercise.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q48|A Note on Growth, Energy Intensity and the Energy Mix: A Dynamic Panel Data Analysis|This paper explores how changes in energy intensity and the switch to renewables can boost economic growth. In doing so, we implement a dynamic panel data approach on a sample of 134 countries over the period 1960 to 2010. We incorporate a set of control variables, related to human and physical capital, socio-economic conditions, and policies which are widely used in the associated literature. According to our results, and given the current state of technology, improving energy intensity is an approach that could reconcile growth and the environment at the worldwide level. Moving to conventional renewables (biomass and hydro) may reduce CO2 emissions, consistent with the related literature, although we do not find evidence that supports a growth enhancing effect. However, moving to frontier renewables (wind, solar, wave or geothermic) does reconcile the reduction of CO2 emissions with economic growth. Our results are robust to the specification of the dynamic panel with respect to three alternative methods, namely, the pooled OLS regression, the regression under fixed effects, and the GMM estimation.
Q48|Electricity subsidy reform in Indonesia: Demand-side effects on electricity use|Indonesia's budget has for years been burdened by large subsidies for electricity consumption. A series of recent reforms has delivered a substantial reduction in these subsidies. In this paper we estimate demand-side effects of these reforms on electricity use. Our analysis utilizes a three-dimensional dataset covering six consumer groups, 16 regions, and 1992–2015. We control for various fixed effects, and use an instrumental variable approach. Our estimates suggest that subsidy reductions since 2013 had induced savings in annual electricity use of around 7% relative to the no-reform counterfactual as of 2015. The phase-out of remaining subsidies has the potential to generate further improvements in the efficiency of electricity use, while freeing up resources for other priorities such as infrastructure spending.
Q48|Revisiting the Environmental Kuznets Curve and the Role of Energy Consumption: The Case of Namibia|The study investigated the dynamic relationship between CO2 emissions, economic growth, and energy consumption for the period 1991:q1-2016:q4 in Namibia. The study applied the ARDL and Granger causality analysis to investigate the long run and causal relationships among these variables, respectively. The study confirmed a long run relationship between CO2 emissions, economic growth, and energy consumption. The results showed that the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) is found in both long and short runs in Namibia and that all the variables Granger cause each other. These results imply that economic growth can be a remedy for environmental degradation which means that the exploitation of natural resources to realize economic growth can be accepted until the turning point of the EKC curve is reached. The study recommends that actions to slow down the release of CO2 emissions and the raising of awareness about environmental concerns should wait until the economy reaches high-income levels.
Q48|The Effect of House Energy Efficiency Costs on the Participation Rate and Investment Amount of Lower-Income Households|We examine the largest house energy efficiency retrofit support program in Greece that ran during 2011-2015 and approximately fifty thousand households participated. We take advantage of an exogenous change that occurred while the program was running. This change substantially increased the subsidy rate for lower-income households. We find that this effective cost reduction increased the participation rate (extensive margin) and investment amount (intensive margin) of these lower-income households.
Q48|An environmentally sustainable global economy. A coopetitive model|This paper proposes a model representing a global economy which aims to become environmentally sustainable. The model looks both at the production side and the consumption side of the economy. Regarding the production side, the suggested model considers investment and innovation in climate technologies, whereas on the side of the consumption it takes into account economic and policy instruments to change the patterns of consumption of the households. The model follows a game theory approach and applies a theoretical framework à la Cournot. The results of the paper are the following: the model provides win-win solutions, namely strategic situations in which each country takes advantages by cooperating and competing at the same time within the global economy, and where each country gets a positive return. In fact, the model shows the convenience for each country to cooperate and suggests the implementation of policies in order to satisfy the basic requirements of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in terms of production, consumption and climate change.
Q48|Measuring electricity security risk|The current study has developed a composite index to measure electricity security risk. It has used a set of eight different indicators and index-governance index, efficiency rate, self-sufficiency rate, ratio of urban access to urbanization rate, rate of access, GDP per capita as percentage of the world average GDP per capita, the share of GDP not dedicated to electricity expenditures, the share of renewable electricity in total supply- to construct the composite index of electricity security. The method used was the geometric mean. Results showed that Benin is among countries that have a very high level of disruption risk to electricity supply. Results also indicated that Norway has the lowest level of disruption risk, followed by Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland and other OECD countries. Many African countries have a very high level of disruption risk and Liberia and Niger have the highest disruption risk to electricity supply. Countries of Latin America, Eastern Europe, North Africa and some countries of the Middle East and Asia have a medium level of disruption risk to electricity supply.
Q48|Effect of negative shocks to electricity consumption on negative shocks to economic growth in Benin|The current study used an asymmetric approach to establish that negative shocks to electricity consumption have caused negative shocks to economic growth in Benin over the period 1971-2014. In so doing, it has ascertained the conclusion of the national policy framework for electricity which stipulated that shortages of electricity have impeded economic growth. Benin has encountered several electricity shortages in the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. Although the share of electricity consumption in total energy consumption is very low in the country, electricity consumption remains essential for of economic growth because shortages of electricity cause reduction in economic growth. This result has some important policy implications in terms of electricity security in Benin.
Q48|The effect of electricity losses on GDP in Benin|The current study has assessed the losses of GDP caused by electricity losses in Benin over the period 1980-2014. The technique used was the Autoregressive Distributive Lags (ARDL). Results showed that in the long run Benin loses 0.16% of its GDP on average because of electricity losses. Benin is a country which faces important losses of electricity. A financing mechanism of the cost associated with reduction of electricity losses has been proposed in the national policy framework for electricity. By investigating the gain in GDP resulting from a reduction in electricity losses, the current study has assessed the feasibility of such mechanism, and thus contributes to the advancement of energy efficiency policy in Benin.
Q48|An econometric evaluation of daylight saving time in Mexico|This paper evaluates the impact of daylight saving time (DST) on households’ consumption of electricity in Mexico. Differences-in-differences estimates suggest that current savings in households’ electricity consumption due to DST account for almost 0.6% of total electricity consumption in the country. Nevertheless, the effect of DST is not homogeneous along the whole period in which it is in effect (from April to October). Savings are larger toward the end of the period.
Q48|Using real options to study the impact of capacity additions and investment expenditures in renewable energies in India|We calculate the overall policy value of installed capacity additions and investment expenditures in wind and solar energies in India. Recent increases in capacity additions and investments by both the public and private sectors alongwith government support schemes have made these energies more competitive with traditional fuels like coal in generating electricity. We use a two-factor learning curve to model the decline in prices of wind and solar energies. Employing a real options approach with global coal prices as the stochastic variable we find the overall value of promotion policies in renewables to be sufficiently large. Reducing the share of coal in electricity generation is one of India’s stated goals and a high trigger price of coal suggests continued efforts of capacity additions and investment expenditures in the solar and wind sectors are needed for some time in India.
Q48|Cambodia's Oil and Gas Activities and Future Outlooks|This article aims to reveal studies on Cambodia’s current activities in the oil and gas industry. The paper will be divided into three parts: 1) Distribution of oil and gas resources 2) Current Operations in the oil and gas industry and 3) Conclusion and discussion of the future of the industry.
Q48|Renewable energy price-control policy in the presence of innovation: is government pre-commitment preferable?|In a perfectly competitive market with a possibility of technological innovation we analyze guaranteed feed-in tariffs for electricity from renewables from a dynamic efficiency and social welfare point of view. Specifically, we model decisions about the technological innovation with convex costs within the framework of a game-theoretic model, and discuss implications for optimal policy design under different assumptions regarding regulatory pre-commitment. We find that in terms of dynamic efficiency no pre-commitment policies are shown to be at least as good as the pre-commitment ones. Thus, a government with a preference for innovation being performed if the achievable cost reduction is high should be in favor of the no pre-commitment regime.
Q48|Energy Efficiency Transitions in China: How persistent are the movements to/from the frontier?|This study examines the energy efficiency transitions in China using provincial data covering the period 2003–2015. Sustainable progress in energy efficiency achievements is beneficial to energy insecurity and the achievement of the Paris Agreement. This article combines the stochastic frontier method with the panel Markov-switching regression to model energy efficiency transitions. Estimated energy efficiency scores showed significant regional and provincial heterogeneity. Also, while human capital development, urbanization, and foreign direct investment promote energy efficiency, price and income per capita reduce it. The transition probabilities indicate that the high energy-efficient state is less sustainable, and the movement towards the frontier seems less persistent than movement from the frontier. Thus, it appears that China is not making sustainable progress in energy efficiency. The unsustainable nature of the high energy-efficient state suggests that in China, there are weak energy efficiency efforts and energy efficiency policies lack robustness.
Q48|Gasoline savings from clean vehicle adoption|Conventional counterfactuals used in literature may underestimate fuel savings from clean vehicle adoption, thus overestimating the costs of securing associated environmental benefits. Using a large-scale nationally representative sample of U.S. new car buyers, we propose a choice model-based counterfactual approach to predict what consumers would purchase if clean vehicles were unavailable. We find that gasoline consumption under a no clean vehicle scenario increases by 1.7%, compared with 1.1% based on a conventional counterfactual. The conventional counterfactual overestimates the cost of gasoline savings from clean vehicle adoption incentives by $1.16 (27%) per gallon compared with the choice model-based counterfactual.
Q48|Evaluating Thailand's Free Basic Electricity Program|This study evaluates the performance of Thailand's Free Basic Electricity (FBE) program along three dimensions: targeting effectiveness, benefit adequacy, and subsidy burden distribution. While the FBE benefits reaches the targeted population (low-income families) quite well, the benefit leakage to the non-targeted population could result in a significant increase in the overall subsidy cost. Furthermore, the current 50-unit free quota given by the FBE program is insufficient for the basic need of many low-income families. Lastly, the FBE subsidy burden falls exclusively on the industrial/commercial customers, but the cost increase has been rather small. Therefore, Thailand's FBE program can be markedly improved by introducing a more effective targeting approach to reduce leakage, which will allow the government to raise the free electricity quota while maintaining the same overall subsidy cost.
Q48|Evaluating the Cost to Industry of Electricity Outages|The unreliability of electricity supplies is a major cause of the high cost of manufacturing in developing countries. In this paper we propose a more accurate approach, the contribution method, to measure the cost imposed by power outages. We employ a rich, if not unique, set of data from the detailed operating accounts of three large manufacturing enterprises in Nepal. Estimating the true opportunity costs to the enterprises from lost production caused by power outages sheds light on the issue of cost measurement that is critical for the determination of the feasibility of mitigating measures. Furthermore, having such micro-based information on the value of lost load per kWh by firm or sector is critical for reducing the economic costs of planned outages by the electric utility.
Q48|Impact of World Oil Prices on an Energy Exporting Economy Including Monetary Policy|We investigate the interrelationship between the main macroeconomic indicators of an oil exporting country and world oil prices using a vector autoregressive approach. We focus on an oil exporter that is not a member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and its oil revenues, which account for a significant proportion of the country’s total export and budget revenues. We explain the oil price transition mechanisms to this economy from the export side and through the fiscal channel, taking into account the monetary policy factor. The results suggest that oil price fluctuations have a significant impact on the oil exporting country’s real gross domestic product, consumer price index inflation rate, interest rate, and exchange rate. Moreover, to estimate monetary policy rule for this energy exporter, we test the Taylor equation and associated Taylor rule, including the oil prices gap, since the latter may have a significant impact on the key policy rate. The evidence suggests that the Taylor rule describes the post-financial crisis monetary policy of this economy relatively well. Finally, we discuss future research and lessons from this economy for monetary policy makers.
Q48|Green Energy Finance in Australia and New Zealand|We explore the history and current status of green energy finance in Australia and New Zealand. Although both countries have enviable renewable energy resources with a 100% renewable mix considered feasible, the two countries present highly contrasting contexts for energy finance. Currently, and largely for historical reasons, renewables make up over 80% of the electricity capacity in New Zealand, whereas in Australia this is 17%. Interestingly, between them and over time, the two countries have employed most of the important policy tools available to incentivize renewables and green energy finance (e.g., carbon taxes, carbon trading, a green investment bank, a green certification market, and feed-in-tariffs). Despite this, we show that between 2004 and 2017 both countries did not meet their potential in terms of renewables and have lower levels of green energy investment relative to gross domestic product per capita than many other developed countries. The Australian and New Zealand context provides many lessons for other jurisdictions—ranging from the need for cross-party and regulatory commitment to energy transition, to the need for policy stability. Indeed, a key issue in Australia and New Zealand is the challenge of designing electricity markets that support energy transition and the investment that it requires. Incumbents in both jurisdictions are fearful of a “death spiral” induced by distributed power, and in Australia political instability and market design issues contributed to a major energy crisis in 2017. However, the crisis, the Paris Agreement, and the associated impetus of new governments in both countries suggest green energy investment is set to increase in the coming years.
Q48|Information and transparency in wholesale electricity markets: evidence from Alberta|Abstract We examine the role of information transparency in Alberta’s wholesale electricity market. Using data on firms’ bidding behavior, we analyze whether firms utilize information revealed in near real-time through the Historical Trading Report (HTR), which is released 10 min after each hour and contains a complete (de-identified) list of every firms’ bids into the wholesale market from the previous hour. We demonstrate that firms are often able to identify the offers of specific rivals by offer patterns adopted by those firms. For one of these firms, these patterns are associated with higher offer prices. This is consistent with allegations by Alberta’s Market Surveillance Administrator that firms may be utilizing unique bidding patterns to reveal their identities to their rivals to elevate market prices. We show that certain firms respond to rival offer changes with a lag consistent with responding to information revealed through the HTR, and that they respond differently to different firms, suggesting that they are able to infer identification.
Q48|Imperfect Competition in Electricity Markets with Renewable Generation: The Role of Renewable Compensation Policies|"We analyze the effects of commonly employed renewable compensation policies on firm behavior in an imperfectly competitive market. We consider a model where firms compete for renewable capacity in a procurement auction prior to choosing their forward contract positions and competing in wholesale electricity markets. We focus on fixed and premium-priced feed-in tariff (FIT) compensation policies. We demonstrate that the renewable compensation policy impacts both the types of resources that win the renewable auction and subsequent market competition. While firms have stronger incentives to exercise market power in wholesale markets under a premium-priced FIT, they also have increased incentives to sign pro-competitive forward contracts. Despite these countervailing incentives, in net firms have stronger incentives to exercise market power under the premium-priced policy. We find conditions under which renewable resources that are more correlated with market demand are procured under a premium-priced design, while the opposite occurs under a fixed-priced policy. If the cost efficiencies associated with the ""more valuable"" renewable resources are sufficiently large, then welfare is larger under the premium-priced policy despite the stronger market power incentives in the wholesale market. Finally, we consider incumbent behavior in the renewable auction when competing against entrants with more valuable resources."
Q48|On The Benefits of Behind-the-Meter Rooftop Solar and Energy Storage: The Importance of Retail Rate Design|We investigate the impact of retail rate design on the investment incentives, avoided utility costs, and cost shifting concerns associated with rooftop solar and rooftop solar plus battery storage systems that are located behind-the-meter. We consider recently proposed changes to California's time-of-use pricing policy for commercial and industrial consumers which shifts on-peak prices from midday hours to the network constrained evening hours. We find that the shift in on-peak hours decreases investment in rooftop solar and has an ambiguous effect on storage investment. We demonstrate that storage reduces utility network costs, but the magnitude of this effect varies critically with the prevailing retail rate structure. Importantly, we show that a shift in the on-peak period to the constrained evening hours does not always elevate the avoided network cost associated with a battery system when demand charges are imposed on a consumer's private maximum demand. We illustrate that this issue can be alleviated by imposing demand charges on consumption that arises in system-constrained hours. We find that cost-shifting concerns are substantially reduced under the proposed rates and tariffs that have a heavy reliance on demand charges. We illustrate that while storage reduces the utility's costs, it can also increase cost-shifting concerns. These findings demonstrate the potential trade-offs between maximizing avoided costs and minimizing cost-shifting concerns under commonly employed retail rate structures.
Q48|Distributed Generation in Unbundled Electricity Markets|Electricity systems are increasingly characterized by distributed generation technologies, e.g. rooftop photovoltaic systems, which are used by end consumers to directly produce electricity. Additionally, empirical evidence suggests that electricity retailers exercise market power in many unbundled electricity markets. Against this backdrop this articles analyzes the impact of distributed generation on imperfect retail markets for electricity in a spatial competition framework. I ﬁnd that distributed generation puts competitive pressure on retailers and induces lower retail prices. Therefore even consumers, who do not use distributed generation, beneﬁt. Based on this eﬀect regulators can shift welfare to consumers by subsidizing distributed generation in order to position it as a competitor to grid based electricity. However, if only a limited share of demand can be supplied with distributed generation, there is a point at which retailers disregard the substitutable share of demand and focus on the non-substitutable consumption in order to realize higher mark-ups. As a result, increased subsidies for distributed generation can increase retail prices and harm consumers. With optimal subsidies this strategy of retailers is prevented by limiting usage of distributed generation.
Q48|Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy Considering Contributions to Security of Supply|Electricity markets are increasingly inﬂuenced by variable renewable energy such as wind and solar power with a pronounced weather-induced variability and imperfect predictability. As a result, the evaluation of the capacity value of variable renewable energy, i.e. its contribution to security of supply, gains importance. This paper develops a new methodology to endogenously determine the capacity value in large-scale investment and dispatch models for electricity markets. The framework allows to account for balancing eﬀects due to the spatial distribution of generation capacities and interconnectors. The practical applicability of the methodology is shown with an application for wind power in Europe. We ﬁnd that wind power can substantially contribute to security of supply in a decarbonized European electricity system in 2050, with regional capacity values ranging from 1 - 40%. Analyses, which do not account for the temporal and spatial heterogeneity of the contribution of wind power to security of supply therefore lead to ineﬃcient levels of dispatchable back-up capacity. Applying a ﬁxed wind power capacity value of 5% results in an overestimation of ﬁrm capacity requirements in Europe by 66GW in 2050. This translates to additional ﬁrm capacity provision costs of 3.8 bn EUR per year in 2050, which represents an increase of 7%.
Q48|Business Models for Energy Suppliers Aggregating Flexible Distributed Assets and Policy Issues Raised|The ongoing digitalization of the energy sector opens up opportunities for novel business models, which can help to overcome challenges that accompany the transition towards a sustainable energy supply. One necessity in a more decentralized energy system with high shares of renewables is the provision of flexibility. This paper uses the business model generation approach of Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010) to understand the challenges of the transition towards distributed power generation for energy suppliers. The insights gained indicate that the focus of business models in the electricity supply market has to switch to an offer-driven perspective. To this end, the business model of an “Energy Supplier 2.0” as a dedicated aggregator of flexible capacities on the household level is investigated. It is found that the aggregation of flexibilities can provide additional revenue streams, extra customer comfort, support for grid operators, and reduce society’s costs for the sustainable energy transition process. Despite these promising advantages, and even though early movers indicate economic interest, we find that the current regulation and policies bear obstacles for a broad diffusion of this type of business models in the energy sector. We identify several obstacles and suggest solutions how to overcome legislative hurdles where possible.
Q48|The Rebound Effect and its representation in Climate and Energy models|In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and common practice of energy and climate modeling vis-a-vis the rebound literature, in particular regarding how macroeconomic energy and climate models quantify and include energy and greenhouse gas rebound effects. First, we focus on rebound effects in models of costless energy efficiency improvement that hold other attributes constant (zero-cost breakthrough), and an energy efficiency policy that may be bundled with other product changes that affect energy use (policy-induced efficiency improvement) (Gillingham et al. 2015). Second, we examine macroeconomic studies focusing on energy efficiency both in industry and in private households. Third, we go through a general theoretical revision from micro- to macroeconomic levels (the aggregation level) to include a review of the so-called meso-level studies (focused on the analysis of the production side). From 118 recent studies along the aggregation level, out of which 25 compute rebound calculations, we find that the average energy rebound effect is 58% with a standard deviation of 58%, and when we include green house gas rebound calculations, the magnitude is of the order of 43% with a standard deviation of 55%. Finally, we argue that the rebound effect is a phenomenon that requires a sound understanding of the complex interactions from different dimensions (e.g. aggregation level, heterogeneity, climate, energy conservation and economic growth), and we provide some ideas and motivations for future research.
Q48|Factors influencing the spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency|Improving energy and environmental efficiency is an inevitable choice for developing countries to achieve sustainable economic and social development. Using VAR Granger causality test method (Granger, 1969), this study identifies the spatial correlation of energy environmental efficiency based on provincial panel data sample between 1995 and 2015 in China; further through the QAP analysis model (Liu, 2014), the factors influencing the spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency is empirically analyzed. The results show that the differences of economic development level, energy consumption structure, industrial structure, environmental regulation and technological innovation are significantly correlated with spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency; similar economic development level, technical level and industrial structure are beneficial to the formation of spatial correlation network of energy environmental efficiency while the differences of energy consumption structure and environmental regulation have little impact on this process.
Q48|The Impact of Rural Electrification on Income and Education: Evidence from Bhutan|We investigate the impact of a rural electrification program on household income and children’s schooling in rural Bhutan. Using Propensity Score Matching, we find that electrification had a statistically significant impact on non-farm income and education. Non-farm income increased by 61 percent and children gained 0.72 additional years of schooling and 9 minutes of study time per day. We do not observe significant effects on farm income. Results are consistent and robust to different matching algorithms. Our findings indicate that investments in reducing energy deficit may help improve human welfare in Bhutan.
Q48|Counterfactual comparisons of investment options for wind power and agricultural production in the United States: Lessons from Northern Ohio|We analyze potential efficiency gains in wind power projects by comparing counterfactual investment decisions in two different scenarios under a real options framework. The first scenario is a standard wind power investment, where the investor rents the land from local farms. In the second scenario, the wind power investor buys the land and commercializes both electricity and crop production, thus shortening the revenue risk through the diversification. Both scenarios have a waiting option, with the wholesale prices leading the installation decision. We model the electricity price as a mean reverting process with jumps and with different jumping probabilities for the different seasons of the year. Corn prices follow a mean reverting process. The waiting flexibility was modeled as a bundle of European options. The results indicate that the waiting option is exercised in 100% of our simulations in both scenarios, suggesting the still important role of government policies to stimulate wind power. More importantly, in more than 90% of the simulations, the second scenario brought value to the investment. Furthermore, net present values are more sensitive to reductions in capital costs than electricity prices. These results can form the basis for more effective policies for the wind power sector.
Q48|Bridging the gap: Do fast-reacting fossil technologies facilitate renewable energy diffusion?|The diffusion of renewable energy in the power system implies high supply variability. Lacking economically viable storage options, renewable energy integration is possible thanks to the presence of modern mid-merit fossil-based technologies, which act as back-up capacity. This paper discusses the role of modern fossil-based power generation technologies in supporting renewable energy investments. We study the deployment of these two technologies conditional on all other drivers in 26 OECD countries between 1990 and 2013. We show that moving from the first to the third quartile of the distribution of modern fossil technologies is associated with an increase in yearly renewable energy investment of between 6 and 14 kW per thousand people, on average and ceteris paribus. This is a sizeable effect, considering that average yearly renewable capacity addition in our sample are around 12 kW per thousand people. These findings are robust to different econometric specifications, various definitions of modern fossil technologies and are stronger for wind, which is more intermittent and for which the mismatch between supply and demand is more marked. Our analysis points to the substantial indirect costs of renewable energy integration and highlights the complementarity of investments in different generation technologies for a successful decarbonization process.
Q48|System Transition and Structural Change Processes in the Energy Efficiency of Residential Sector: Evidence from EU Countries|This paper aims to analyse the evolution of energy efficiency systems for the residential sector of EU countries over the past twenty years and the associated process of structural change occurred in EU economies. To this purpose, we develop a set of indicators to measure some significant characteristics of the energy efficiency systems and map European countries in terms of four dimensions: energy system, innovation system, policy mix design and export competitiveness. Building on these indicators we develop a cluster analysis identifying non-arbitrary homogeneous country groups according to several characteristics in order to investigate the co-evolution of technological trajectories, energy use performance and structural change in this specific domain. Results suggest the distinction of EU countries into four groups, that are individually and comparatively scrutinized shedding light on how the four dimensions here considered dynamically evolved and interacted within and across countries. Empirical findings reveal that the design of the domestic policy mix may play a key role in shaping technological trajectories and structural change processes that in turns allow an increase in external competitiveness performance. Such positive impact appears to be closely related to the quality and quantity of international relationships with main economic partners.
Q48|Patent-based Estimation Procedure of Private R&D: The Case of Climate Change and Mitigation Technologies in Europe|Information on R&D expenditure of the private sector is very limited, both in term of availability and data quality, especially when interest focuses on Climate Change Mitigation Technologies (CCMTs). This has an impact on the robustness of quantitative analyses, and, consequently, on the insights deriving from them. This paper proposes a methodology to estimate R&D expenditure in firms simultaneously active in multiple technology sectors, with the focus on those contributing to the development of CCMTs. The methodological approach is applied to measure how the private sector invests in R&D dedicated to CCMTs, and how this differentiates among European countries. Further the paper proposes metrics to analyse the geographical distribution of the R&D expenditures in Multinational Corporations (MNCs) across subsidiaries located in Europe. Early findings are formulated into useful insights for stakeholders and policy makers.
Q48|Klimaschutz und Energiewende nach dem Sondierungspapier zur GroKo III – großer weiterer Handlungsbedarf|Für 2020 war festgelegt, dass die THG-Emissionen 40 % unter dem Wert des Jahres 1990 liegen. Angesichts eines nur leichten weiteren Rückgangs bis 2016 auf 27,7 % gegenüber dem Basisjahr und einem von den AG Energiebilanzen (2017) prognostizierten Anstieg im Jahr 2017 im Vergleich zum Vorjahr erwartet u. a. die Experten-Kommission zum Monitoring-Prozess der Energiewende (EWK 2017) nicht, dass das Klimaziel für das Jahr 2020 noch erreicht wird. Die Ursachen für die Zielverfehlung liefert die Experten-Kommission gleich mit. Der Bereich der Wärmeerzeugung und insbesondere der Verkehr sind weit von den Zielen des Energiekonzepts der Bundesregierung entfernt. Dies gilt sowohl für den Anteil der erneuerbaren Energien als auch für die Energieeffizienz. Dagegen wirkt der viel diskutierte und kritisierte Strombereich trotz schleppenden Netzausbaus wie ein Musterknabe. Was ist in der laufenden Legislaturperiode zu tun, um das Klimaschutzziel von 40 % im Jahr 2020 nicht allzu weit zu verfehlen und zumindest noch eine realistische Chance zu erhalten, im Jahr 2030 mit einer THG-Minderung von 55 % gegenüber 1990 wieder den Zielpfad zu erreichen? Das Discussion Paper fokussiert entsprechende Maßnahmen, indem es einerseits erklärt, welchen Effekt ein nationaler Mindestpreis auf alle THG-Emissionen hätte und andererseits, weshalb auch die Energieeffizienz in allen Bereichen massiv und messbar vorangetrieben werden sollte.
Q48|Ökonomische Indikatoren des Energiesystems – Methode, Abgrenzung und Ergebnisse für den Zeitraum 2000–2016|Die Energiewende in Deutschland hat das Ziel, langfristig eine umweltverträgliche, ressourcenschonende und kostengünstige Energieversorgung zu gewährleisten. Um den Fortschritt dieser Transformation adäquat und zuverlässig beurteilen zu können, bedarf es geeigneter Indikatoren. Neben physischen Indikatoren zu Energieeinsatz und Emissionen werden auch Indikatoren benötigt, die die ökonomische Dimension der Transformation der Energiewirtschaft beschreiben. Die hier vorliegende Untersuchung ermittelt und dokumentiert relevante ökonomische Indikatoren. Da die Transformation des Energiesystems ein langfristiger Prozess ist, wird angestrebt, die Indikatoren in einer langen Zeitreihe seit dem Jahr 2000 bis zum aktuellen Rand vorzulegen. Bei genauerer Betrachtung, welche Wirtschaftsbereiche dem Energiesystem zuzurechnen sind, wird deutlich, dass eine Klärung und Abgrenzung erforderlich sind. Der Schwerpunkt dieser Untersuchung wird auf die Bereitstellung von Endenergie gelegt, es werden jedoch auch erste Ansätze zur Erfassung der Entwicklung von Maßnahmen zur Steigerung der Energieeffizienz und zu effizienten Verbrauchern vorgestellt. Der Report stellt dar, welche Daten in den relevanten ökonomischen Indikatorenbereichen vorliegen und welche Daten aus welchem Grund für die hier dokumentierten Indikatoren genutzt wurden. Bei der Auswahl der verwendeten Daten wird angestrebt, immer dann, wenn es methodisch vertretbar erscheint, vorliegende amtliche oder andere öffentlich verfügbare Daten zu nutzen. Wo dies nicht möglich oder sinnvoll erscheint, sind Methoden entwickelt worden, anhand derer die erforderlichen Indikatoren abgeleitet werden können. Die dabei angewendeten Vorgehensweisen und die jeweils getroffenen Annahmen werden ausführlich dargestellt. Die Untersuchung ist daher wie folgt aufgebaut. Zunächst wird die Beschäftigung in den verschiedenen Bereichen der Energiewirtschaft ausgeführt. Wie in allen Bereichen der Wirtschaftstätigkeit lösen diese Aktivitäten die Nachfrage nach weiteren Gütern aus und führen auch indirekt zu Beschäftigung in den vorgelagerten Wirtschaftszweigen. Daher sind die indirekten Effekte unabdingbar, um den gesamten ökonomischen Effekt der Energiewirtschaft abzuschätzen. Das folgende Kapitel geht ausführlich auf die Investitionstätigkeit in der Energiewirtschaft ein und stellt erstmals in der Literatur umfassend Investitionen in allen Bereichen zusammen. Anschließend wird der Bogen zurück zur Beschäftigung geschlagen. Hier wird die zur Bereitstellung der entsprechenden Güter notwendige Bruttoproduktion abgeleitet, auf deren Basis die Beschäftigungsermittlung fußt. Die hierzu notwendigen Überlegungen zum Außenhandel mit den jeweiligen Gütern werden ebenfalls angestellt. Der Bericht schließt mit verschiedenen konzeptionellen Ansätzen in der Literatur zum Thema Energieeffizienz und gibt Beispiele für eine entsprechende Umsetzung.
Q48|Erneuerbar beschäftigt in den Bundesländern – Bericht zur aktualisierten Abschätzung der Bruttobeschäftigung 2016 in den Bundesländern|Der Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien (EE) ist von einem umfangreichen Monitoringprozess begleitet, bei dem jährlich technisch-ökonomische Daten ermittelt, aufbereitet und veröffentlicht werden. Die Berichterstattung dient dem Aufzeigen von Fortschritten wie Fehlstellen, welche bei der Zielerreichung wichtige Korrekturen oder Verstärkungen ermöglichen. Seit dem Jahr 2006 ist die Ermittlung der mit dem EE-Ausbau verbundenen Beschäftigung Teil des Monitorings. Ausgangspunkt der Berechnungen sind die Investitionen in erneuerbare Energien des jeweiligen Jahres. Der Ausbau und der Betrieb von EE-Anlagen löst zusätzliche Nachfrage nach Anlagen und nach Leistungen für den Betrieb und die Wartung von Anlagen aus. Durch die zusätzliche Nachfrage wird zunächst die direkte Beschäftigung für die Produktion und die Bereitstellung von Biomasse sowie die direkte Beschäftigung in Betrieb und Wartung der Anlagen benötigt. Über eine Input-Output-Analyse werden aus der Produktion von Vorleistungen indirekt Beschäftigte abgeleitet. Die Strukturinformationen der EE-Branchen wurden in einer Reihe von Unternehmensbefragungen (2005, 2007, 2012) erhoben und seither fortgeschrieben. Seit dem Beschluss der Bundesregierung zum Energiekonzept (2010), spätestens aber seit den Beschlüssen zur Energiewende im Jahr 2011 umfasst der Monitoringprozess alle Energiewendebereiche und enthält die komplette Energiewirtschaft und die Energieeffizienz. So hat die jüngste Veröffentlichung von O’Sullivan et al. (2018) die Beschäftigung durch die Energiewende insgesamt im Blick. Sie wurde erstmals um eine Zeitreihe ergänzt, welche die Entwicklung der Bruttobeschäftigung durch erneuerbare Energien basierend auf einer konsolidierten Zeitreihe zum Ausbau, dem Bestand und den jährlichen Investitionen konsistent abschätzt. Die Bruttobeschäftigung durch den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien in Deutschland dient im Folgenden als Ausgangspunkt für die Berechnung der EE-Beschäftigung in den Bundesländern. Dazu wird zunächst kurz auf die Veröffentlichungsreihe zur regionalen Abschätzung eingegangen. Kapitel 2 gibt einen Überblick über die Verteilung der Bruttobeschäftigung in den Bundesländern insgesamt und beleuchtet unterschiedliche Strukturen. Zusätzlich werden der Status und die Entwicklung für drei Energieträger gesondert dargestellt. Kapitel 3 geht auf die einzelnen Entwicklungen in den Bundesländern ein und Kapitel 4 fasst anhand der Gesamtdynamik zusammen und schließt mit einem zusammenfassenden Fazit.
Q48|Gesamtwirtschaftliche Effekte der Energiewende|Für die Transformation des Energiesystems zu einem klimafreundlichen System und dem gleichzeitigen Ausstieg aus der Kernenergie bis zum Jahr 2022 bei Gewährleistung einer sicheren, wirtschaftlichen und umweltverträglichen Energieversorgung sind technologische Entwicklungen und Investitionen notwendig. Da die Energiewende mit gesamtwirtschaftlichen Effekten und vielfältigen Verteilungswirkungen verbunden ist, ist es für die Akzeptanz der Energiewende entscheidend, dass sie gesamtwirtschaftliche Vorteile bzw. keine inakzeptablen Nachteile mit sich bringt und negative Verteilungswirkungen frühzeitig erkannt, begrenzt und – wenn möglich – ausgeglichen werden. In diesem Teilbericht zum gesamten Forschungsvorhaben 21/15 „Makroökonomische Wirkungen und Verteilungsfragen der Energiewende“ werden die Ergebnisse der makroökonomischen Analyse aus Arbeitspaket 3 vorgestellt. Zur Ermittlung der gesamtwirtschaftlichen Wirkungen der Energiewende in der Vergangenheit und zu zukünftigen Wirkungen werden modellgestützt zwei Szenarien einander gegenübergestellt. Das Energiewende-Szenario EWS bildet eine Welt ab, in der die Energiewende seit dem Jahr 2000 so abläuft, wie sie auch faktisch stattgefunden hat und in der in der Zukunft die Ziele der Energiewende erreicht werden. Das Kontrafaktische Szenario KFS bildet eine in sich konsistente alternative Entwicklung ab, die wie folgt beschrieben werden kann: Ab dem Jahr 2000 fand keine Förderung von erneuerbaren Energien und Energieeffizienz statt und wird auch in Zukunft nicht stattfinden. Zur Energieumwandlung werden ab dem Jahr 2000 nur diejenigen Technologien eingesetzt, die sich marktgetrieben durchsetzen. Der Vergleich ökonomischer Kenngrößen unter den jeweiligen Szenarioannahmen lässt Rückschlüsse auf die gesamtwirtschaftliche Vorteilhaftigkeit eines Szenarios gegenüber dem anderen zu. Im Anschluss an die Ausgestaltung der beiden Szenarien sowie die ihnen zugrunde liegenden Annahmen und Rahmendaten für die Entwicklung von 2000 bis heute wird die Entwicklung von Primär- und Endenergieverbrauch sowie der energiebedingten THG-Emissionen in den beiden Szenarien ausführlich beschrieben. Diese Szenarien werden in das umweltökonomische makroökonometrische Modell PANTA RHEI eingestellt. Die damit ermittelten gesamtwirtschaftlichen Ergebnisse werden umfänglich dargestellt und anschließend verschiedene Sensitivitätsrechnungen durchgeführt. Zum einen werden die Effekte des Szenarienvergleichs aufgespalten in Wirkungen auf dem Strommarkt und Effekte, die durch höhere Energieeffizienz und erneuerbare Energien in den verschiedenen Verbrauchssektoren ausgelöst werden. Zum zweiten werden Analysen für die EU-Kommission nachvollzogen, die den Einfluss unterschiedlicher Restriktionen auf Märkten und ihre Umsetzung in konkreten Modellen betrachten. Es folgt eine Einordnung der Ergebnisse, sowohl durch den Vergleich mit nationalen und internationalen Ergebnissen als auch durch Aufzeigen der Grenzen der Modellrechnungen. Außerdem bietet der Report einen kurzen Überblick darüber, wie und wo weitergehende Effekte quantifiziert werden (können). Er schließt mit einer kurzen Zusammenfassung sowie einem Ausblick.
Q48|Gesamtwirtschaftliche Effekte der Energiewende in den Bundesländern – methodische Ansätze und Ergebnisse|Die Energiewende hat eine Vielzahl von wirtschaftlichen Auswirkungen. Versteht man sie als Summe aller Maßnahmen, Instrumente und Strategien der Bundesregierung zur sicheren, umweltverträglichen und bezahlbaren Bereitstellung von Energie seit 2000, so hatte sie erheblichen Einfluss auf die Energiepreise, den Energieträgermix, den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien und die Zunahme der Energieeffizienz in den meisten Nachfragebereichen. Lutz et al. (2018) kommen in ihrem Bericht zu den gesamtwirtschaftlichen Wirkungen der Energiewende zu dem Schluss, dass „der Vergleich der gesamtwirtschaftlichen Ergebnisse der beiden Szenarien „mit und ohne“ Energiewende, EWS und KFS, im Modell PANTA RHEI durchgehend positive Effekte der Energiewende insgesamt [zeigt]“. Wie aber verteilt sich dieses vielversprechende Ergebnis auf die Bundesländer? Welches Bundesland hat mehr von den positiven Effekten der Energiewende und warum? Zur Beantwortung gilt es, die speziellen Strukturen der Bundesländer, die auf charakteristische Weise auf die Energiewende reagieren, zu identifizieren und datengestützt aufzubereiten. Mit dem in der vorliegenden Untersuchung vorgeschlagenen methodischen Ansatz lassen sich die Auswirkungen der Energiewende von der Bundesebene auf die Bundesländer projizieren. Damit dies über ein einfaches Aufteilen der Effekte hinausgeht, ist eine Vielzahl an Annahmen, wirtschaftsstrukturellen Überlegungen und bundeslandspezifischen Daten notwendig. Die GWS verfügt über ein auf Bundesländer regionalisiertes ökonomisches Modell (LÄNDER, vgl. Anhang), das die Modelle wie PANTA RHEI auf Bundesebene ergänzt. Es basiert auf einer Fülle regionaler Daten wie den Volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen der Länder. Eine Auswertung der bundesweiten Szenarien mittels dieses Instrumentariums gibt einen Einblick in die strukturellen Wirkungen der Energiewende in den Bundesländern. Um die Energiewende in ihren Wirkungen auf Bundeslandebene besser zu verstehen, werden ihre beiden wichtigsten Säulen herausgegriffen und getrennt untersucht. Am Beispiel der Gebäudesanierung und der Stromerzeugungsinfrastruktur eines Bundeslandes werden die wirtschaftlichen Reaktionen auf Veränderungen durch die Energiewende aufgezeigt und untersucht.
Q48|Mögliche Engpässe für die Energiewende|Mit der Energiewende (EW) verfolgt Deutschland den langfristigen Umbau des Energiesystems. Der Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien und die Steigerung der Energieeffizienz sind die dabei verfolgten Kernziele. Die Energiewende wirkt gesamtwirtschaftlich positiv (Lutz et al. 2018). Allerdings stellt sich vor dem Hintergrund der sehr robusten gesamt-wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung in den letzten Jahren zunehmend die Frage, ob Engpässe und Restriktionen den Erfolg der Energiewende derzeit oder zukünftig teilweise konterkarieren können. Investitionen in die Energiewende sind wichtig, um die Ziele der Energiewende zu erreichen. Im Folgenden wird auf Basis einer Literaturrecherche für Deutschland untersucht, welche gesamtwirtschaftlichen und sozioökonomischen Zusammenhänge hierbei zu beachten sind. Neben den Engpässen bei der Produktion von Energiewendegütern gibt es auch Restriktionen, die in der Energiewende selbst und dem dazu notwendigen Transformationsprozess begründet sind. Dies sind zum einen Pfadabhängigkeiten der Infrastrukturen und Energiewendegüter, die dazu führen, dass bisherige Technologien lange im Einsatz sind und Investitionen in EW-Güter gebremst werden. Zum anderen handelt es sich um Verhaltensweisen, die die Wirksamkeit der Energiewende begrenzen, wie etwa der Rebound-Effekt, durch den der Energieverbrauch weniger stark zurückgeht als gedacht. Ziel dieses Teils des Beitrags ist es vor allem, zu zeigen, dass die Energiewende nicht im luftleeren Raum, sondern vor dem Hintergrund allgemeiner wirtschaftlicher Engpässe und Wachstumschancen stattfindet. Dazu werden nach einer Definition mögliche Engpässe bei der Produktion der EW-Güter aufgezeigt (Abschnitt 2). Anschließend werden in Abschnitt 3 übergreifende Restriktionen für die Energiewende dargestellt. Der Beitrag schließt mit einem Fazit und einem Ausblick auf die Bereiche, in denen eine tiefergehende Analyse und verstärkte Berücksichtigung bei der Gestaltung der Energiewende wünschenswert wären.
Q48|Revenue Decoupling for Electric Utilities: Impacts on Prices and Welfare|Under traditional (cost-of-service) electric utility regulation, regulated utilities may not recover their fixed costs when their sales are lower than expected. Revenue decoupling (RD) is a mechanism that allows price adjustments so that the regulated utility recovers its required revenue. This paper investigates the welfare and distributional impacts of RD. Theoretically, we find that the excess burden of subsidies for distributed generation is larger with RD than without. Contrary to how RD is specified on dockets in many states, electricity prices appear to demonstrate downward rigidity, while statistically significant upward adjustments on average are observed across utilities that experienced decoupling. We also find empirically that RD has generated negative welfare effects in most states even if we consider the social marginal costs of electricity generation given different energy mix across regional markets.
Q48|Revenue Decoupling for Electric Utilities: Impacts on Prices and Welfare|Under traditional (cost-of-service) electric utility regulation, regulated utilities may not recover their fixed costs when their sales are lower than expected. Revenue decoupling (RD) is a mechanism that allows price adjustments so that the regulated utility recovers its required revenue. This paper investigates the welfare and distributional impacts of RD. Theoretically, we find that the excess burden of subsidies for distributed generation is larger with RD than without. Contrary to how RD is specified on dockets in many states, electricity prices appear to demonstrate downward rigidity, while statistically significant upward adjustments on average are observed across utilities that experienced decoupling. We also find empirically that RD has generated negative welfare effects in most states even if we consider the social marginal costs of electricity generation given different energy mix across regional markets.
Q48|Energy performance certificates and investments in building energy efficiency: a theoretical analysis|In the European Union, Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) provide potential buyers or tenants with information on a property's energy performance. By mitigating informational asymmetries on real estate markets, the conventional wisdom is that they will reduce energy use, increase energy-efficiency investments, and improve social welfare. We develop a dynamic model that partly contradicts these predictions. Although EPCs always improve social welfare, their impact on energy use and investments is ambiguous. This implies that, in a second-best world where energy externalities are under-priced and/or homeowners have behavioral biases hindering investments (myopia), EPCs can damage social welfare. This calls for using mandatory energy labeling in contexts where additional instruments efficiently mitigate the other imperfections.
Q48|Energy Burden Alleviation and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction: Can We Reach Two Objectives With One Policy?|In this article, we assess French current public policies designed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and abate household energy burden, through a simulation of changes in residential sector characteristics over the long run. We build on an existing partial equilibrium model to take into consideration key determinants of excessive energy burden among vulnerable households. This analysis reveals that current public policies are not sufficient to reach the ambitious objectives for reducing energy consumption and GHG emissions in France. Moreover, the decreases that might occur mask significant social disparities across households. The joint implementation of multiple instruments leads to interactions that diminish overall policy outcomes. Overall, current public policies produce estimated free-riding rates of 75%. Energy efficiency measures are thus insufficient in themselves; the government should focus more on monetary poverty as a cause of low home improvement rates and consider subsidizing renovation costs as a potential solution.
Q48|Uncertainty management and the dynamic adjustment of deep decarbonization pathways| Contrary to ‘static’ pathways that are defined once for all, this article deals with the need for policy makers to adopt a dynamic adaptive policy pathway for managing decarbonization over the period of implementation. When choosing a pathway as the most desirable option, it is important to keep in mind that each decarbonization option relies on the implementation of specific policies and instruments. Given structural, effectiveness, and timing uncertainties specific to each policy option, they may fail in delivering the expected outcomes in time. The possibility of diverging from an initial decarbonization trajectory to another one without incurring excessive costs should therefore be a strategic element in the design of an appropriate decarbonization strategy. The article relies on initial experiences in France and Germany on decarbonization planning and implementation to define elements for managing dynamic adjustment issues. Such an adaptive pathway strategy should combine long-lived incentives, like a pre-announced escalating carbon price, to form consistent expectations, as well as adaptive policies to improve overall robustness and resilience. We sketch key elements of a monitoring process based on an ex ante definition of leading indicators that should be assessed regularly and combined with signposts and trigger values at the subsector level. Policy relevance These research questions are of special interest and urgency following the Paris Agreement in 2015. It calls on all countries to monitor the implementation of their national contributions and review their ambition regularly. The regular revision of decarbonization pathways constitute a great research opportunity to gather experiences on decarbonization pathway implementation and on dynamic management issues to progress towards an operational dynamic adaptive policy pathway mechanism.
Q48|Electricity market integration and the impact of unilateral policy reforms|We investigate the impact that two German energy reforms—phase-out of nuclear power plants after the Fukushima incident and expansion of renewables due to fixed feed-in tariffs—had on neighbouring countries’ consumers. The unilateral German reforms generated substantial negative and positive impacts, respectively, in neighbouring countries with the highest overall effect of German policy found in France, not Germany; an annual negative impact on consumers of €3.15 billion. We also find significant differences in market integration between neighbouring countries by calculating ratios between the estimated policy decisions’ impacts before and after controlling for interconnector congestion.
Q48|Heat or power: How to increase the use of energy wood at the lowest cost?|We compute the optimal subsidy level for fuelwood consumption that makes it possible to achieve the French biomass energy consumption target. For this purpose, we model the competition and trade-offs between the consumption of fuelwood for heat (FW-H) and the consumption of fuelwood for electricity (FW-E). To do so, we couple a forest sector model with an electricity simulation model, and we test different scenarios combining FW-H and FW-E that account for contrasting potential increases in the carbon price and the potential reduction in the number of nuclear plants. We assess the implications of these scenarios on (1) the budgetary costs for the government, (2) industrial wood producers' profits, (3) cost savings in the power sector for the different scenarios tested, and (4) the carbon balance.
Q48|Antidumping and Feed-In Tariffs as Good Buddies? Modeling the EU-China Solar Panel Dispute|The paper analyzes the interactions between trade and renewable energy policies based on the EU-China solar panel dispute which is the most significant antidumping (AD) complaint in Europe. We build a price competition duopoly model with differentiated products and intra-industry trade in photovoltaic (PV) equipment. We show that an optimal antidumping duty always increases with the feed-in tariff (FIT) program set in the home country. An appropriate antidumping duty - nullifying the dumping margin - decreases with the FIT program. We show that optimal FIT increases with the AD duty. Therefore, trade and renewable energy optimal policies may complement one another. Lastly, we introduce R&D activities in the PV sector, and international spillovers. We show that R&D makes the optimal FIT lower and increases the dumping margin. These effects are reinforced by technological spillovers.
Q48|Addressing the climate problem: Choice between allowances, feed-in tariffs and taxes|Instruments chosen to pursue climate related targets are not always efficient. In this paper we consider an economy with three climate related targets for its electricity generation: a given share of “green” electricity, a given expansion of “green” electricity, and a given reduction of “black” (fossil based) electricity. At its disposal the country has three instruments: an allowance system (tradable green certificates), a subsidy system (feed-in tariffs) and a Pigouvian fossil tax. Each of these instruments may be used to attain any of the given targets. Within the setting of the model it is verified that each kind of the target has only a single efficient instrument under certainty, and that there is a deadweight loss of using other instruments to achieve the target. Similarly, there is also an analysis of instrument choice when several targets are to be attained at the same time. The paper also discusses the case of simultaneous targets as well as the relevance of the various targets.
Q48|Effects of EPC home energy audits on investment: A quasi-natural experiment approach|Incomplete information may be one reason why some households do not invest in energy efficiency even though it would benefit them to do so. Energy performance certificates (EPCs) have been promoted to overcome such information shortages. In this paper, we investigate whether EPCs together with mandatory home energy audits make households more likely to invest in energy efficiency. Our study takes advantage of the mandatory nature of the EPCs to avoid the potential selection bias problem that typically applies to studies using voluntary energy audits as the treatment. Our treatment group consists of single-household dwellings in Sweden sold from 2008, i.e., when EPCs became legally required in connection with sales of residential buildings, to 2015; while the control group consists of houses sold between 2002 and 2008, i.e., without an EPC. The results show that there is no statistically significant treatment effect for most of the measures that a household can take to improve the energy performance of their house.
Q48|Energy performance certificates and investments in building energy efficiency: a theoretical analysis|In the European Union, Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) provide potential buyers or tenants with information on a property's energy performance. By mitigating informational asymmetries on real estate markets, the conventional wisdom is that they will reduce energy use, increase energy-efficiency investments, and improve social welfare. We develop a dynamic model that partly contradicts these predictions. Although EPCs always improve social welfare, their impact on energy use and investments is ambiguous. This implies that, in a second-best world where energy externalities are under-priced and/or homeowners have behavioral biases hindering investments (myopia), EPCs can damage social welfare. This calls for using mandatory energy labeling in contexts where additional instruments efficiently mitigate the other imperfections.
Q48|Parallel tracks towards a global treaty on carbon pricing|We argue that a global carbon price is the only way to effectively tackle free riding in international climate policy, required to substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We briefly review the main reasons behind the essential role of carbon pricing, address common misunderstandings and scepticism, and identify key complementary policy instruments. Negotiating global carbon pricing is argued to be much easier than negotiating binding country-level targets, especially if it includes equitable revenue recycling. Moreover, a global carbon price can be more readily adapted to new data and insights of climate science. We propose a political strategy towards a global carbon price that consists of two tracks. The first entails assembly of a carbon-pricing club, a specific case of a climate club, to gradually move towards a full participatory agreement on carbon pricing. The second track involves putting time and energy into re-focusing UNFCCC negotiations on a carbon-pricing agreement. The two tracks reinforce one another, increasing the likelihood of a successful outcome.
