Q49|Heterogeneity of social information programs: the role of identity and values|Social information programs are increasingly used to nudge behavioral change, but still relatively little is known about sources of heterogeneity in their impact. This paper examines whether individual values are associated with heterogeneous responses to social information. Using data from a large field experiment of household energy conservation, we combine electricity metering and survey data to study how environmental values affect the impact of the program. We then leverage the role of values by augmenting social information messages with an environmental self-identity prime. Results show that values are important drivers of heterogeneity. Moreover, enhancing social information by making environmental self-identity more salient boosts the social information impact, but only among individuals who acted pro-environmentally in the past.
Q49|Policies to Overcome Barriers for Renewable Energy Distributed Generation: A Case Study of Utility Structure and Regulatory Regimes in Michigan|Because of its environmental damage and now often being the most expensive source for electricity production, coal use is declining throughout the United States. Michigan has no active coal mining and seemingly supportive legislation for distributed generation (DG) and renewable energy (RE) technologies. However, Michigan still derives approximately half of its power production from large centralized coal plants, despite the availability of much lower cost RE DG technologies. To understand this conundrum, this study reviews how Michigan investor owned utilities utilize their political power to perpetuate utility structures that work toward the financial interests of the utilities rather than the best interests of the state’s electricity consumers, including other firms and residents. Background is provided covering the concept of DG, the cost savings associated with DG, and utility regulatory regimes at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Recent case studies from specific utility strategies are provided in order to illustrate how Michigan utilities manipulate regulatory regimes via policy misinterpretation to deter or hinder the proliferation of DG in favor of maintaining the existing interests in centralized, fossil fuel-based electrical energy production. The results of this study demonstrate how DG proliferation is hindered by Michigan regulated utilities via the exercise of political power within existing legal and regulatory regimes. This highlights the need to think about how utilities may interpret and implement rules when designing energy legislation and policy to maximize the benefits for consumers and society. Policy recommendations and alternate strategies are provided to help enhance the role of energy policy to improve rather than limit the utilization of RE DG.
Q49|Technology heterogeneity in European industries' energy efficiency performance. The role of climate, greenhouse gases, path dependence and energy mix|Assessment of industrial-level energy efficiency development is a critical research topic that has infiltrated in the global battle against climate change. A balanced panel of fourteen European industries from twenty-four countries for the period 1995-2011 is introduced into a metafrontier framework. Reflecting the divergent views on the importance of desirable and undesirable outcomes in the pursuit of energy efficiency, the proposed approach estimate industrial performance by prioritizing either economic or environmental criterion incorporating technological heterogeneity. It is found that small-scale economies exhibit persistent high energy efficiency scores. Regarding energy efficiency determinants, path dependence phenomena have a strong presence, climate characteristics occurs, while energy mix displays linear but also non-linear relationships. Finally, regardless of the method employed, there is a strong evidence of conditional and unconditional convergence.
Q49|Power generation portfolios: A parametric formulation of the efficient frontier|The Portfolio Theory has been extensively used as a planning tool for power generation diversification. However, no one of the existing papers provide a detailed explanation on how the efficient frontier of the Power Generation Portfolio (PGP) is costructed. We provide a parametric formulation of the efficient frontier of PGP of up to 5 technologies. The analysys takes advantages of the fact that the risk of the PGP is a convex function of the shares of the different technologies. The parametric formulation of the efficient frontier of the PGP constitutes a powerfull policy tool for power generation policy-makers.
Q49|Cost misperceptions and energy consumption: Experimental evidence for present bias and biased price beliefs|The aim of this study is to link variation in energy cost misperceptions to variation in households' energy consumption. The focus is on two sorts of misperceptions: First, present biased discounting of future energy costs and second, biased energy price beliefs. By running an artefactual field experiment with a representative sample of 711 participants, we gather incentivized measures of these two misper- ceptions and observe participant's revealed electricity consumption. Our main finding is that participants with present bias are predicted to consume on average 9% more electricity than participants with time-consistent discounting. Our results further suggest that neither the true marginal electricity price nor the expected marginal electricity price can predict electricity consumption. Taken together our results raise doubt in the effectiveness of classical price based policies in reducing households' energy consumption.
Q49|Technological change, energy, environment and economic growth in Japan|A considerable amount of research has shown that that carbon tax combined with research subsidy may be regarded as an optimal policy in view of diffusing low carbon technologies for the benefit of the society. The paper exploits the macro economic approach of the endogenous growth models with technological change for a comparative assessment of these policy measures on the economic growth in the US and Japan in the medium and the long run. The results of our micro estimates reveal several important differences across the Japanese and US energy firms: lower elasticity of innovation production function in R&D expenditure, lower probability of a radical innovation, and larger advances of dirty technologies in Japan. This may explain our quantitative findings of stronger reliance on carbon tax than on research subsidies in Japan relative to the US.
Q49|Simulating the potential of swarm grids for pre-electrified communities - A case study from Yemen|Swarm grids are an emerging approach for electrification in the Global South that interconnects individual household generation and storage to a small electricity network for making full use of existing generation capacities. Using a simulation tool for demand, weather, and power flows, we analyse the potential of an AC swarm grid for a large preelectrified village in rural Yemen. Service quality and financial indicators are compared to the cases of individual supply and a centralised micro grid. While the swarm grid would, in fact, improve supply security from currently 12.4 % (Tier 2) to 81.7 % (Tier 3) at lower levelised costs, it would be inferior to the micro grid in both service (Tier 4) and costs. This is mainly driven by the large pre-installed fossil-fuel generator and storage capacities in our case study. However, this situation may be representative for other relevant locations. Under these conditions, a swarm grid poses the danger to create (possibly-undesired) incentives to invest in diesel generators, and it may fail to support prosumerism effectively. Nevertheless, the swarm’s evolutionary nature with the possibility for staggered investments (e.g. in smaller yet complementary groups of consumers) poses a central advantage over micro grids in the short-term alleviation of energy poverty.
Q49|A Bibliometric Analysis of the Energy and Fuel Research Field Based on Science Mapping|This article investigates the conceptual evolution of qualitative research in the field of energy and fuel focus on oil and gas research from 1990 to 2018 identifying the main topics and practical applications which it has been used. The automatic approach was based on a co-word analysis and combines performance analysis and science mapping. The considerable number of studies published according to the journals in energy and fuel field focus on oil and gas research indexed in ISI Web of Science makes it possible to undertake a conceptual analysis of how the field has evolved. To observe the conceptual evolution of energy and fuel, we define three consecutive periods: 1990-2000, 2001-2008, 2009-2018. The results show that energy and fuel focus on oil and gas research are distributed in ten main theoretical areas: VEGETABLE-OILS, BIO-OIL, OIL, DIESEL-FUEL, PERFORMANCE, BIO-DIESEL, BIOMASS, CRUDE-OIL, RENEWABLE-ENERGY, SHALE. The research output could be used by the scientific community to identify thematic areas and to know the evolution of the energy and fuel field.
Q49|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q49|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|External information (e.g., monetary and opportunity costs, retailer messaging), internal information (e.g., consumer knowledge, information processing), and the interaction between different forms of information can affect consumer engagement in markets. We employ an analytical framework which embraces both economic and psychological motives behind consumer behavior to investigate the motives and obstacles associated with household behavior in energy markets, using data from over 18,000 randomly selected responses drawn from three annual surveys of British households commissioned by the UK energy regulator. Three forms of household engagement – switching to a new electricity and/or gas supplier, changing electricity or/and gas tariffs, and changing payment methods of energy bills – are explored using a multiple-discrete choice framework. We find that internal information pathways have robust and strong effects on switching suppliers and tariffs. Concretely, a lack of belief in tariff differences discourages participation in energy markets. By contrast, professed knowledge of household energy spending and familiarity with energy tariffs drives consumer engagement. External information – supplier messages and Internet information may enhance each other in promoting market participation, conditional on message source and participation form. We also find that engagement by incumbent retailers (such as through consumer messages) can be effective in discouraging households from switching suppliers.
Q49|Energy contagion analysis: A new perspective with application to a small petroleum economy|We put forward the novel concept of energy contagion, i.e. a deepening of energy-finance linkages under crisis conditions in energy markets. Further, we show how to construct tests for energy contagion through correlation, co-skewness, and co-volatility channels. The samples of our contagion measures are defined in terms of calm and crisis periods in the international crude oil market. In particular, we compare how these various co-moments in the energy-finance nexus change during: (1) Oil booms and slumps using semi-parametric rule-based algorithms; (2) Tranquil and turbulent oil price volatility episodes using a non-hierarchical k-means clustering algorithm. Energy contagion analysis is essential for financial stability analysis in economies where prosperity is linked to the prices of hard commodities. Our applications are performed on the oil-exchange rate and oil-stock market relationships of the small petroleum economy of Trinidad and Tobago. The main results show a negative oil-real effective exchange rate dependency; a weak oil-stock returns association; and the existence of several energy contagion channels in both financial relationships, which are sensitive to the contemporary global financial crash.
Q49|Unintended consequences: The snowball effect of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized generation and smart appliances, energy communities have become a phenomenon of increased interest. While the benefits of such communities have been discussed, there is increasing concern that inadequate grid tariffs may lead to excess adoption of such business models. Furthermore, snowball effects may be observed following the effects these communities have on grid tariffs. We show that restraining the study to a simple cost-benefit analysis is far from satisfactory. Therefore, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to take account of the ability of communities to share gains between members. The interaction between energy communities and the DSO then results in a non-cooperative equilibrium. We provide mathematical formulations and intuitions of such effects, and carry out realistic numerical applications where communities can invest jointly in solar panels and batteries. We show that such a snowball effect may be observed, but its magnitude and its welfare effects will depend on the grid tariff structure that is implemented, leading to possible PV over-investments.
Q49|Consumer Engagement in Energy Markets: The Role of Information and Knowledge|No abstract is available for this item.
Q49|Evolution of EROIs of Electricity Until 2050: Estimation Using the Input-Output Model THEMIS|The EROI –for Energy Returned On Invested– of an energy technology measures its ability to provide energy efficiently. Previous studies draw a link between the affluence of a society and the EROI of its energy system, and show that EROIs of renewables are lower than those of fossil fuels. Logically, concerns have been expressed that system-wide EROI may decrease during a renewable energy transition. First, I explain theoretically that the EROIs of renewables themselves could then decrease as energy-efficient fossil fuels would be replaced by less energy-efficient renewables in the supply-chain. Then, using the multiregional input-output model THEMIS, I estimate the evolution of EROIs and prices of electric technologies from 2010 to 2050 for different scenarios. Global EROI of electricity is predicted to go from 12 in 2010 to 11 in 2050 in a business-as-usual scenario, but down to 6 in a 100% renewable one. Finally, I study the economic implication of a declining EROI. An inverse relation between EROI and price is suggested empirically, even though theory shows that both quantities may move in the same direction.
Q49|Barriers to Energy Efficiency in Swedish Non-Energy-Intensive Micro- and Small-Sized Enterprises—A Case Study of a Local Energy Program|Improved energy efficiency has become a strategic issue and represents a priority for European competitiveness. Countries adopt various energy policies on local and national levels where energy audit programs are the most common energy end-use efficiency policy for industrial small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). However, studies indicate that cost-efficient energy conservation measures are not always implemented, which can be explained by the existence of barriers to energy efficiency. This paper investigates how Swedish municipalities can support local micro- and small-sized enterprises with improved energy efficiency and the existence of different barriers to the implementation of energy efficiency. Relating this empirical case study to the theoretical barriers outlined in the text, this study found that the major explanatory factors related to non-implementation of cost-effective energy efficiency measures among micro- and small-sized industrial enterprises were bounded rationality (lack of time and/or other priorities), split incentives (having other priorities for capital investments), and imperfect information (slim organization and lack of technical skill). This study also found that information in the form of a report was the main thing that companies gained from working on the project “Energy-Driven Business”. Notably, the study involved companies that had participated in a local energy program and, still, companies face major barriers inhibiting implementation, indicating a need to further study other alternative policy models and how knowledge transfer can be improved.
Q49|Multi-Objective Aerodynamic and Structural Optimization of Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbine Blades|A procedure based on MATLAB combined with ANSYS is presented and utilized for the multi-objective aerodynamic and structural optimization of horizontal-axis wind turbine (HAWT) blades. In order to minimize the cost of energy (COE) and improve the overall performance of the blades, materials of carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) combined with glass fiber reinforced plastic (GFRP) are applied. The maximum annual energy production (AEP), the minimum blade mass and the minimum blade cost are taken as three objectives. Main aerodynamic and structural characteristics of the blades are employed as design variables. Various design requirements including strain, deflection, vibration and buckling limits are taken into account as constraints. To evaluate the aerodynamic performances and the structural behaviors, the blade element momentum (BEM) theory and the finite element method (FEM) are applied in the procedure. Moreover, the non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA) II, which constitutes the core of the procedure, is adapted for the multi-objective optimization of the blades. To prove the efficiency and reliability of the procedure, a commercial 1.5 MW HAWT blade is used as a case study, and a set of trade-off solutions is obtained. Compared with the original scheme, the optimization results show great improvements for the overall performance of the blade.
Q49|Modeling and Maximum Power Point Tracking Control of Wind Generating Units Equipped with Permanent Magnet Synchronous Generators in Presence of Losses|This paper focuses on the modeling of wind turbines equipped with direct drive permanent magnet synchronous generators for fundamental frequency power system simulations. Specifically, a procedure accounting for the system active power losses to initialize the simulation starting from the load flow results is proposed. Moreover, some analytical assessments are detailed on typical control schemes for fully rated wind turbine generators, thereby highlighting how active power losses play a fundamental role in the effectiveness of the wind generator control algorithm. Finally, the paper proposes analytical criteria to design the structure and the parameters of the regulators of the wind generator control scheme. Simulations performed with Digsilent Power Factory validated the proposed procedure, highlighting the impact of active power losses on the characterization of the initial steady state and that the simplifying assumptions done in order to synthesize the controllers are consistent with the complete modeling performed by the aforementioned power system simulator.
Q49|A Performance Prediction Method for Pumps as Turbines (PAT) Using a Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Modeling Approach|Small and micro hydropower systems represent an attractive solution for generating electricity at low cost and with low environmental impact. The pump-as-turbine (PAT) approach has promise in this application due to its low purchase and maintenance costs. In this paper, a new method to predict the inverse characteristic of industrial centrifugal pumps is presented. This method is based on results of simulations performed with commercial three-dimensional Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) software. Model results have been first validated in pumping mode using data supplied by pump manufacturers. Then, the results have been compared to experimental data for a pump running in reverse. Experimentation has been performed on a dedicated test bench installed in the Department of Civil Construction and Environmental Engineering of the University of Naples Federico II. Three different pumps, with different specific speeds, have been analyzed. Using the model results, the inverse characteristic and the best efficiency point have been evaluated. Finally, results have been compared to prediction methods available in the literature.
Q49|Modeling and Analysis of Resonance in LCL-Type Grid-Connected Inverters under Different Control Schemes|As a basic building block in power systems, the three-phase voltage-source inverter (VSI) connects the distributed energy to the grid. For the inductor-capacitor-inductor (LCL)-filter three-phase VSI, according to different current sampling position and different reference frame, there mainly exist four control schemes. Different control schemes present different impedance characteristics in their corresponding determined frequency range. To analyze the existing resonance phenomena due to the variation of grid impedances, the sequence impedance models of LCL-type grid-connected three-phase inverters under different control schemes are presented using the harmonic linearization method. The impedance-based stability analysis approach is then applied to compare the relative stability issues due to the impedance differences at some frequencies and to choose the best control scheme and the better controller parameters regulating method for the LCL-type three-phase VSI. The simulation and experiments both validate the resonance analysis results.
Q49|Efficient Energy Consumption Scheduling: Towards Effective Load Leveling|Different agents in the smart grid infrastructure (e.g., households, buildings, communities) consume energy with their own appliances, which may have adjustable usage schedules over a day, a month, a season or even a year. One of the major objectives of the smart grid is to flatten the demand load of numerous agents (viz. consumers), such that the peak load can be avoided and power supply can feed the demand load at anytime on the grid. To this end, we propose two Energy Consumption Scheduling (ECS) problems for the appliances held by different agents at the demand side to effectively facilitate load leveling. Specifically, we mathematically model the ECS problems as Mixed-Integer Programming (MIP) problems using the data collected from different agents (e.g., their appliances’ energy consumption in every time slot and the total number of required in-use time slots, specific preferences of the in-use time slots for their appliances). Furthermore, we propose a novel algorithm to efficiently and effectively solve the ECS problems with large-scale inputs (which are NP-hard). The experimental results demonstrate that our approach is significantly more efficient than standard benchmarks, such as CPLEX, while guaranteeing near-optimal outputs.
Q49|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Energies in 2016|The editors of Energies would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
Q49|Power Quality Disturbance Classification Using the S-Transform and Probabilistic Neural Network|This paper presents a transient power quality (PQ) disturbance classification approach based on a generalized S-transform and probabilistic neural network (PNN). Specifically, the width factor used in the generalized S-transform is feature oriented. Depending on the specific feature to be extracted from the S-transform amplitude matrix, a favorable value is determined for the width factor, with which the S-transform is performed and the corresponding feature is extracted. Four features obtained this way are used as the inputs of a PNN trained for performing the classification of 8 disturbance signals and one normal sinusoidal signal. The key work of this research includes studying the influence of the width factor on the S-transform results, investigating the impacts of the width factor on the distribution behavior of features selected for disturbance classification, determining the favorable value for the width factor by evaluating the classification accuracy of PNN. Simulation results tell that the proposed approach significantly enhances the separation of the disturbance signals, improves the accuracy and generalization ability of the PNN, and exhibits the robustness of the PNN against noises. The proposed algorithm also shows good performance in comparison with other reported studies.
Q49|Large-Scale Electrochemical Energy Storage in High Voltage Grids: Overview of the Italian Experience|This paper offers a wide overview on the large-scale electrochemical energy projects installed in the high voltage Italian grid. Detailed descriptions of energy (charge/discharge times of about 8 h) and power intensive (charge/discharge times ranging from 0.5 h to 4 h) installations are presented with some insights into the authorization procedures, safety features, and ancillary services. These different charge/discharge times reflect the different operation uses inside the electric grid. Energy intensive storage aims at decoupling generation and utilization since, in the southern part of Italy, there has been a great growth of wind farms: these areas are characterized by a surplus of generation with respect to load absorption and to the net transport capacity of the 150 kV high voltage backbones. Power intensive storage aims at providing ancillary services inside the electric grid as primary and secondary frequency regulation, synthetic rotational inertia, and further functionalities. The return on experience of Italian installations will be able to play a key role also for other countries and other transmission system operators.
Q49|Where Diffusion of Clean Technologies and Barriers to Innovation Clash: Application to the Global Diffusion of the Electrical Arc Furnace|This paper analyses the role of barriers preventing the worldwide take-up of a clean technology: the electrical arc furnace. It also identifies which barriers affect a parameter that summarises the combined effect of all of them. The first step, determination of the combined effect of the barriers, is carried out using a novel approach to model the diffusion of innovations. This new approach is composed only by terms that account for the driver of innovations and the parameter that summarises the effect of barriers. The objective quantification of the effect of barriers in the diffusion of innovations opens up new opportunities for designing policies to overcome the barriers identified as the most relevant, for identifying the effect of existing policies, for relating innovation indicators with those barriers or for better incorporating the effect of barriers in bottom-up models that forecast the technological evolution of the economy.
Q49|Evaluating the Degradation Mechanism and State of Health of LiFePO 4 Lithium-Ion Batteries in Real-World Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles Application for Different Ageing Paths|Accurate determination of the performance and precise prediction of the state of health (SOH) of lithium-ion batteries are necessary to ensure reliability and efficiency in real-world application. However, most SOH offline studies were based on dynamic stress tests, which only reflect the universal rule of degradation, but are not necessarily applicable for real-world applications. This paper presents an experimental evaluation of two different operations of real-world plug-in hybrid electric vehicles with LiFePO 4 batteries as energy-storage systems. First, the LiFePO 4 batteries were subjected to a set of comparative experimental tests that consider the effects of charge depleting (CD) and charge sustaining (CS) operations. Then, different voltage analysis along with the close-to-equilibrium open circle voltage was utilized to evaluate the performance of the batteries in life cycles. Finally, a qualitative relationship between the external factors (the percentage of time of CD/CS operations during the entire driving range) and the degradation mechanism was built with the help of the proposed methods. Results indicated that the external factors affect the degree of the batteries degradation, but not up to the point when the capacity fading stage occurs. This relationship contributes to the foundation for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles’ (PHEVs’) energy management strategy or battery management system control strategy.
Q49|Mixed Lubrication Effects in the Lateral Lubricating Interfaces of External Gear Machines: Modelling and Experimental Validation|This article presents a novel mixed-thermoelastohydrodynamic (TEHD) model for the lateral lubricating interfaces which exist between floating lateral bushings and gears in external gear machines (EGMs). The proposed model integrates the influence of surface asperities along with the fluid structure and thermal interaction in the interface, especially in the regions of very low film thicknesses by following a stochastic approach in modelling the mixed lubrication regime. Furthermore, the current work includes validation of the predictions of the mixed-TEHD model against experimentally measured leakages from the lateral gap and compares the performance of this model with a previously developed full film TEHD model for the lateral gaps in EGMs.
Q49|A Lyapunov Stability Theory-Based Control Strategy for Three-Level Shunt Active Power Filter|The three-phase three-wire neutral-point-clamped shunt active power filter (NPC-SAPF), which most adopts classical closed-loop feedback control methods such as proportional-integral (PI), proportional-resonant (PR) and repetitive control, can only output 1st–25th harmonic currents with 10–20 kHz switching frequency. The reason for this is that the controller design must make a compromise between system stability and harmonic current compensation ability under the condition of less than 20 kHz switching frequency. To broaden the bandwidth of the compensation current, a Lyapunov stability theory-based control strategy is presented in this paper for NPC-SAPF. The proposed control law is obtained by constructing the switching function on the basis of the mathematical model and the Lyapunov candidate function, which can avoid introducing closed-loop feedback control and keep the system globally asymptotically stable. By means of the proposed method, the NPC-SAPF has compensation ability for the 1st–50th harmonic currents, the total harmonic distortion ( THD ) and each harmonic content of grid currents satisfy the requirements of IEEE Standard 519-2014. In order to verify the superiority of the proposed control strategy, stability conditions of the proposed strategy and the representative PR controllers are compared. The simulation results in MATLAB/Simulink (MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA) and the experimental results obtained on a 6.6 kVA NPC-SAPF laboratory prototype validate the proposed control strategy.
Q49|Fire Hazards of Some Modern Solid Fuels|Fire hazard during ship transportation of certain modern solid fuels is identified. A particular mechanism which may lead to catastrophic ship fire is discussed. A mathematical model predicting time to such fully developed fire (flashover time) I s proposed. An analytical solution is obtained for the developed model. An important part of this solution is a closed form analytical description of the smoke filling dynamics in a closed compartment. It is demonstrated that flashover time depends on a number of parameters. The relative importance of these parameters is discussed. Particular significance is attributed to fuel soot propensity (fuel soot yield) which is an intrinsic fuel property. This parameter controls the intensity of radiative heat exchange in the compartment, and its influence on flashover time is of paramount importance. It is suggested that fuels are ranked with respect to this parameter in order to describe their relative fire hazards. This ranking should be implemented into the regulatory framework governing fuel transportation by ships.
Q49|Designing and Testing Composite Energy Storage Systems for Regulating the Outputs of Linear Wave Energy Converters|Linear wave energy converters generate intrinsically intermittent power with variable frequency and amplitude. A composite energy storage system consisting of batteries and super capacitors has been developed and controlled by buck-boost converters. The purpose of the composite energy storage system is to handle the fluctuations and intermittent characteristics of the renewable source, and hence provide a steady output power. Linear wave energy converters working in conjunction with a system composed of various energy storage devices, is considered as a microsystem, which can function in a stand-alone or a grid connected mode. Simulation results have shown that by applying a boost H-bridge and a composite energy storage system more power could be extracted from linear wave energy converters. Simulation results have shown that the super capacitors charge and discharge often to handle the frequent power fluctuations, and the batteries charge and discharge slowly for handling the intermittent power of wave energy converters. Hardware systems have been constructed to control the linear wave energy converter and the composite energy storage system. The performance of the composite energy storage system has been verified in experiments by using electronics-based wave energy emulators.
Q49|Desorption Kinetics and Mechanisms of CO 2 on Amine-Based Mesoporous Silica Materials|Tetraethylenepentamine (TEPA)-based mesoporous MCM-41 is used as the adsorbent to determine the CO 2 desorption kinetics of amine-modified materials after adsorption. The experimental data of CO 2 desorption as a function of time are derived by zero-length column at different temperatures (35, 50, and 70 °C) and analyzed by Avrami’s fractional-order kinetic model. A new method is used to distinguish the physical desorption and chemical desorption performance of surface-modified mesoporous MCM-41. The activation energy E a of CO 2 physical desorption and chemical desorption calculated from Arrhenius equation are 15.86 kJ/mol and 57.15 kJ/mol, respectively. Furthermore, intraparticle diffusion and Boyd’s film models are selected to investigate the mechanism of CO 2 desorption from MCM-41 and surface-modified MCM-41. For MCM-41, there are three rate-limiting steps during the desorption process. Film diffusion is more prominent for the CO 2 desorption rates at low temperatures, and pore diffusion mainly governs the rate-limiting process under higher temperatures. Besides the surface reaction, the desorption process contains four rate-limiting steps on surface-modified MCM-41.
Q49|Exploring the Feasibility of Low-Carbon Scenarios Using Historical Energy Transitions Analysis|The scenarios generated by energy systems models provide a picture of the range of possible pathways to a low-carbon future. However, in order to be truly useful, these scenarios should not only be possible but also plausible. In this paper, we have used lessons from historical energy transitions to create a set of diagnostic tests to assess the feasibility of an example 2 °C scenario (generated using the least cost optimization model, TIAM-Grantham). The key assessment criteria included the rate of deployment of low carbon technologies and the rate of transition between primary energy resources. The rates of deployment of key low-carbon technologies were found to exceed the maximum historically observed rate of deployment of 20% per annum. When constraints were added to limit the scenario to within historically observed rates of change, the model no longer solved for 2 °C. Under these constraints, the lowest median 2100 temperature change for which a solution was found was about 2.1 °C and at more than double the cumulative cost of the unconstrained scenario. The analysis in this paper highlights the considerable challenge of meeting 2 °C, requiring rates of energy supply technology deployment and rates of declines in fossil fuels which are unprecedented.
Q49|Towards Nearly Zero Energy Buildings in Europe: A Focus on Retrofit in Non-Residential Buildings|Buildings are the focus of European (EU) policies aimed at a sustainable and competitive low-carbon economy by 2020. Reducing energy consumption of existing buildings and achieving nearly zero energy buildings (NZEBs) are the core of the Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) and the recast of the Energy Performance of Building Directive (EPBD). To comply with these requirements, Member States have to adopt actions to exploit energy savings from the building sector. This paper describes the differences between deep, major and NZEB renovation and then it provides an overview of best practice policies and measures to target retrofit and investment related to non-residential buildings. Energy requirements defined by Member States for NZEB levels are reported comparing both new and existing residential and non-residential buildings. The paper shows how the attention given to refurbishment of NZEBs increased over the last decade, but the achievement of a comprehensive implementation of retrofit remains one of main challenges that Europe is facing.
Q49|Decision Support System for a Low Voltage Renewable Energy System|This paper presents the development of a decision support system (DSS) for a low-voltage grid with renewable energy sources (photovoltaic panels and wind turbine) which aims at achieving energy balance in a pilot microgrid with less energy consumed from the network. The DSS is based on a procedural decision algorithm that is applied on a pilot microgrid, with energy produced from renewable energy sources, but it can be easily generalized for any microgrid. To underline the benefits of the developed DSS two case scenarios (a household and an office building with different energy consumptions) were analyzed. The results and throw added value of the paper is the description of an implemented microgrid, the development and testing of the decision support system on real measured data. Experimental results have demonstrated the validity of the approach in rule-based decision switching.
Q49|Characterization and Analysis of Energy Demand Patterns in Airports|Airports in general have high-energy consumption. Influenced by many factors, the characteristics of airport energy consumption are stochastic, nonlinear and dynamic. In recent years, airport managers have made huge efforts to harmonize airport operation with environmental sustainability by minimizing the environmental impact, with energy conservation and energy efficiency as one of their pillars. A key factor in order to reduce energy consumption at airports is to understand the energy use and consumption behavior, due to the multiple parameters and singularities that are involved. In this article, a 3-step methodology based on monitoring methods is proposed to characterize and analyze energy demand patterns in airports through their electric load profiles, and is applied to the Seve Ballesteros-Santander Airport (Santander, Spain). This methodology can be also used in airports in order to determine the way energy is used, to establish the classification of the electrical charges based on their operation way as well as to determine the main energy consumers and main external influencers. Results show that airport present a daily energy demand pattern since electric load profiles follow a similar curve shape for every day of the year, having a great dependence of the terminal building behavior, the main energy consumer of the airport, and with heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) and lighting being the most energy-intensive facilities, and outside temperature and daylighting the main external influencers.
Q49|Analysis of Dynamic Characteristic for Solar Arrays in Series and Global Maximum Power Point Tracking Based on Optimal Initial Value Incremental Conductance Strategy under Partially Shaded Conditions|Partial shading (PS) is an unavoidable condition which significantly reduces the efficiency and stability of a photovoltaic (PV) system. With PS, the system usually exhibits multiple-peak output power characteristics, but single-peak is also possible under special PS conditions. In fact it is shown that the partial shading condition (PSC) is the necessary but not sufficient condition for multiple-peak. Based on circuit analysis, this paper shows that the number of peak points can be determined by short-circuit currents and maximum-power point currents of all the arrays in series. Then the principle is established based on which the number of the peak points is to be determined. Furthermore, based on the dynamic characteristic of solar array, this paper establishes the rule for determination of the relative position of the global maximum power point (GMPP). In order to track the GMPP within an appropriate period, a reliable technique and the corresponding computer algorithm are developed for GMPP tracking (GMPPT) control. It exploits a definable nonlinear relation has been found between variable environmental parameters and the output current of solar arrays at every maximum power point, obtained based on the dynamic performance corresponding to PSC. Finally, the proposed method is validated with MATLAB ® /Simulink ® simulations and actual experiments. It is shown that the GMPPT of a PV generation system is indeed realized efficiently in a realistic environment with partial shading conditions.
Q49|Numerical Analysis of the Effects of Rotating Wind Turbine Blades on the Aerodynamic Forces Acting on Tower|We have investigated the effects of the rotating blades of an upwind-type three-blade horizontal-axis wind turbine (HAWT) on the basic characteristics of aerodynamic forces acting on its tower by conducting improved delayed detached-eddy simulations (DESs). Three tip-speed ratios were considered for the operating conditions of the HAWT: λ = 3 (low), λ = 6 (optimum), and λ = 10 (high). The diversion of the flow approaching the tower by the rotating blades and the low-pressure region that formed downwind of the blades significantly affected the aerodynamic forces acting on the tower. For example, the azimuth angle around the tower at which the pressure reached a maximum at each height shifted significantly in the direction of the movement of the blade passing the tower because of the diversion of the flow by the blades. Fluctuations in the lift force of the tower were significantly larger than those in its drag force because of the low-pressure region downwind of the blades.
Q49|Nanostructure and Oxidation Reactivity of Nascent Soot Particles in Ethylene/Pentanol Flames|As byproducts of the combustion process of hydrocarbon fuels, soot particles are difficult to remove, and they can greatly harm human health and pollute the environment. Therefore, the formation and growth processes of the soot particles has become a study focus of researchers. In this paper, the nanostructure and oxidation reactivity of carbonaceous particles collected from ethylene inverse diffusion flames with or without the additions of three pentanol isomers (1-pentanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol, and 2-methyl-1-butanol) were investigated in detail. The nanostructure and oxidation characteristics of nascent soot particles were characterized using high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), X-ray diffractometry (XRD) and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). It was found that the nascent soot cluster of pure ethylene flame had a loose structure, while the additions of pentanol isomers made the soot agglomerates more compact and delayed the growth of graphitic structures. The pentanol isomer additions also contributed to a higher disorder of the crystallite arrangement in the soot nanostructure. According to the TGA experiments, the results showed that the addition of pentanol isomers enhanced the oxidation reactivity of soot particles, which could help to reduce soot particle emissions.
Q49|Effect of Thermal-Electric Cross Coupling on Heat Transport in Nanofluids|Nanofluids have an enhanced thermal conductivity compared with their base fluid. Although many mechanisms have been proposed, few of them could give a satisfactory explanation of experimental data. In this study, a mechanism of heat transport enhancement is proposed based on the cross coupling of thermal and electric transports in nanofluids. Nanoparticles are viewed as large molecules which have thermal motion together with the molecules of the base fluid. As the nanoparticles have surface charges, the motion of nanoparticles in the high-temperature region will generate a relatively strong varying electric field through which the motion will be transported to other nanoparticles, leading to a simultaneous temperature rise of low-temperature nanoparticles. The local base fluid will thus be heated up by these nanoparticles through molecular collision. Every nanoparticle could, therefore, be considered as an internal heat source, thereby enhancing the equivalent thermal conductivity significantly. This mechanism qualitatively agrees with many experimental data and is thus of significance in designing and applying nanofluids.
Q49|Optimal Expansion Co-Planning of Reconfigurable Electricity and Natural Gas Distribution Systems Incorporating Energy Hubs|In a carbon-constrained world, natural gas with low emission intensity plays an important role in the energy consumption area. Energy consumers and distribution networks are linked via energy hubs. Meanwhile, reconfiguration that optimizes operational performance while maintaining a radial network topology is a worldwide technique in the electricity distribution system. To improve the overall efficiency of energy infrastructure, the expansion of electricity distribution lines and elements within energy hubs should be co-planned. In this paper, the co-planning process is modeled as a mixed integer quadratic programming problem to handle conflicting objectives simultaneously. We propose a novel model to identify the optimal co-expansion plan in terms of total cost. Operational factors including energy storages and reconfiguration are considered within the systems to serve electricity, cooling and heating loads. Reconfiguration and elements in energy hubs can avoid or defer new elements’ installation to minimize the investment cost, maintenance cost, operation cost, and interruption cost in the planning horizon. The proposed co-planning approach is verified on 3 and 12-node electricity and natural gas distribution systems coupled via energy hubs. Numerical results show the ability of our proposed expansion co-planning approach based on energy hub in meeting energy demand.
Q49|Wind Profiles and Wave Spectra for Potential Wind Farms in South China Sea. Part I: Wind Speed Profile Model|With the setting of wind energy harvesting moving from coastal waters to deep waters, the South China Sea has been deemed to offer great potential for the construction of floating wind farms thanks to the abundance of wind energy resources. An engineering model describing the wind profiles and wave spectra specific to the South China Sea conditions, which is the precondition for offshore wind farm construction, has, however, not yet been proposed. In the present study, a series of numerical simulations have been conducted using the Weather Forecast and Research model. Through analyzing the wind and wave information extracted from the numerical simulation results, engineering models to calculate vertical profiles of wind speeds and wave spectra have been postulated. While the present paper focuses on the wind profile model, a companion paper articulates the wave spectrum model. For wind profiles under typhoon conditions, the power-law and log-law models have been found applicable under the condition that the Hellmann exponent α or the friction velocity u * are modified to vary with the wind strength. For wind profiles under non-typhoon conditions, the log-law model is revised to take into consideration the influence of the atmospheric stability.
Q49|Integrated Traction Control Strategy for Distributed Drive Electric Vehicles with Improvement of Economy and Longitudinal Driving Stability|This paper presents an integrated traction control strategy (ITCS) for distributed drive electric vehicles. The purpose of the proposed strategy is to improve vehicle economy and longitudinal driving stability. On high adhesion roads, economy optimization algorithm is applied to maximize motors efficiency by means of the optimized torque distribution. On low adhesion roads, a sliding mode control (SMC) algorithm is implemented to guarantee the wheel slip ratio around the optimal slip ratio point to make full use of road adhesion capacity. In order to avoid the disturbance on slip ratio calculation due to the low vehicle speed, wheel rotational speed is taken as the control variable. Since the optimal slip ratio varies according to different road conditions, Bayesian hypothesis selection is utilized to estimate the road friction coefficient. Additionally, the ITCS is designed for combining the vehicle economy and stability control through three traction allocation cases: economy-based traction allocation, pedal self-correcting traction allocation and inter-axles traction allocation. Finally, simulations are conducted in CarSim and Matlab/Simulink environment. The results show that the proposed strategy effectively reduces vehicle energy consumption, suppresses wheels-skid and enhances the vehicle longitudinal stability and dynamic performance.
Q49|Wind Profiles and Wave Spectra for Potential Wind Farms in South China Sea. Part II: Wave Spectrum Model|Along with the commercialization of offshore wind energy in China, the South China Sea has been identified as ideal for constructing offshore wind farms, especially for farms consisting of floating wind turbines over deep waters. Since the wind profiles and wave spectra are somewhat primitive for the design of an offshore wind turbine, engineering models describing the wind and wave characteristics in the South China Sea area are necessary for the offshore wind energy exploitation given the meteorological, hydrological, and geographical differences between the South China Sea and the North/Norwegian Sea, where the commonly used wind profile and wave spectrum models were designated. In the present study; a series of numerical simulations were conducted to reveal the wave characteristics in the South China Sea under both typhoon and non-typhoon conditions. By analyzing the simulation results; the applicability of the Joint North Sea Wave Project (JONSWAP) spectrum model; in terms of characterizing the wind-induced wave fields in the South China Sea; was discussed. In detail; the key parameters of the JONSWAP spectrum model; such as the Phillips constant; spectral width parameter; peak-enhancement factor, and high frequency tail decay; were investigated in the context of finding suitable values.
Q49|Thermal Simulation of the Fresh Food Compartment in a Domestic Refrigerator|In the field of domestic refrigeration, it is important to look for methods that can be used to simulate, and, thus, improve the thermal behavior of the fresh food compartment. In this sense, this study proposes some methods to model the thermal behavior of this compartment when the shelves’ positions are changed. Temperature measurements at specific locations in this compartment were obtained. Several shelf position combinations were performed to use three 2D interpolation methods in order to simulate the temperature mean and the temperature variance. The methods used were: Lagrange’s interpolation, cubic spline interpolation and bilinear interpolation. Two validation points were chosen to verify the proposed methods. By comparing the experimental results with the computer simulations, it was possible to conclude that the method of Lagrange’s interpolation provided values that were not close to the real measured values. On the other hand, it was observed that the method of bilinear interpolation offered the best results, estimating values which were very close to the actual experimental measurements. These interpolation methods were used to build color thermal graphs that can be used to find some of the most appropriate shelf position combinations in this type of refrigerator. By inspection of these thermal graphs, it can be seen that the lowest average temperature was obtained when one shelf was located at 24.5 cm while the second shelf was located at 29.5 cm measured from the top of the compartment. In the same way, it can be seen that the minimum temperature variance was obtained when only one shelf was inside the compartment and this shelf was located at 29.5 cm.
Q49|Improving Electricity Consumption Estimation for Electric Vehicles Based on Sparse GPS Observations|Improving the estimation accuracy for the energy consumption of electric vehicles (EVs) would greatly contribute to alleviating the range anxiety of drivers and serve as a critical basis for the planning, operation, and management of charging infrastructures. To address the challenges in energy consumption estimation encountered due to sparse Global Positioning System (GPS) observations, an estimation model is proposed that considers both the kinetic characteristics from sparse GPS observations and the unique attributes of EVs: (1) work opposing the rolling resistance; (2) aerodynamic friction losses; (3) energy consumption/generation depending on the grade of the route; (4) auxiliary load consumption; and (5) additional energy losses arising from the unstable power output of the electric motor. Two quantities, the average energy consumption per kilometer and the energy consumption for an entire trip, were focused on and compared for model fitness, parameter, and effectiveness, and the latter showed a higher fitness. Based on sparse GPS observations of 68 EVs in Aichi Prefecture, Japan, the traditional linear regression approach and a multilevel mixed-effects linear regression approach were used for model calibration. The proposed model showed a high accuracy and demonstrated a great potential for application in using sparse GPS observations to predict the energy consumption of EVs.
Q49|An Improvement in Biodiesel Production from Waste Cooking Oil by Applying Thought Multi-Response Surface Methodology Using Desirability Functions|The exhaustion of natural resources has increased petroleum prices and the environmental impact of oil has stimulated the search for an alternative source of energy such as biodiesel. Waste cooking oil is a potential replacement for vegetable oils in the production of biodiesel. Biodiesel is synthesized by direct transesterification of vegetable oils, which is controlled by several inputs or process variables, including the dosage of catalyst, process temperature, mixing speed, mixing time, humidity and impurities of waste cooking oil that was studied in this case. Yield, turbidity, density, viscosity and higher heating value are considered as outputs. This paper used multi-response surface methodology (MRS) with desirability functions to find the best combination of input variables used in the transesterification reactions to improve the production of biodiesel. In this case, several biodiesel optimization scenarios have been proposed. They are based on a desire to improve the biodiesel yield and the higher heating value, while decreasing the viscosity, density and turbidity. The results demonstrated that, although waste cooking oil was collected from various sources, the dosage of catalyst is one of the most important variables in the yield of biodiesel production, whereas the viscosity obtained was similar in all samples of the biodiesel that was studied.
Q49|A Soft Sensor-Based Fault-Tolerant Control on the Air Fuel Ratio of Spark-Ignition Engines|The air/fuel ratio (AFR) regulation for spark-ignition (SI) engines has been an essential and challenging control problem for engineers in the automotive industry. The feed-forward and feedback scheme has been investigated in both academic research and industrial application. The aging effect can often cause an AFR sensor fault in the feedback loop, and the AFR control performance will degrade consequently. In this research, a new control scheme on AFR with fault-tolerance is proposed by using an artificial neural network model based on fault detection and compensation, which can provide the satisfactory AFR regulation performance at the stoichiometric value for the combustion process, given a certain level of misreading of the AFR sensor.
Q49|Assessment of the Governance System Regarding Adoption of Energy Efficient Appliances by Households in Nigeria|The adoption of energy efficient electrical appliances by households has a great potential to reduce electricity consumption in Nigeria. A well-formulated and implemented policy (mix) to spur adoption is said to be required to drive this process. This article presents an assessment of policies that aim to spur adoption among households, and the related governance system. The analytical framework used for this analysis is the Governance Assessment Tool (GAT). Data collection involved semi-structured interviews, a review of policy documents, and secondary quantitative data. The results show that policies in Nigeria had little effect in meeting pre-set goals. The governance system was found to be weakly developed due to a lack of policy, the overlapping work of different governmental organizations, a lack of appropriate resources, and a lack of householders’ involvement in agenda-setting and decision-making processes. Current actions mostly depend on local programmes that run via donor aid. They include the free exchange of CFL bulbs and metering studies of end user energy consumption. The results add further insight in the fields of governance and policy on energy efficiency issues in developing countries. This article also provides suggestions for the design of policies that target the adoption of energy efficient electrical appliances among households in Nigeria.
Q49|Control of a Three-Phase to Single-Phase Back-to-Back Converter for Electrical Resistance Seam Welding Systems|DC link back-to-back converters are widely used in industrial applications. This interest comes from their power factor unity capability on the utility grid and to maintain regulated output parameters, thanks to the decoupling between the grid and the load side. In this paper, a 150 KVA prototype of DC link back-to-back converter for electrical resistance seam welding applications is described. The focus of the paper is on the control strategy developed to absorb constant power from the three-phase utility grid. The key idea is to allow the voltage on the DC bus to vary in order to avoid the propagation at the input side of the pulsed power required by the load. An estimation procedure of the load parameters is presented too. The effectiveness of this control scheme has been proved by simulations and tests.
Q49|Estimation of Hourly, Daily and Monthly Global Solar Radiation on Inclined Surfaces: Models Re-Visited|Global solar radiation is generally measured on a horizontal surface, whereas the maximum amount of incident solar radiation is measured on an inclined surface. Over the last decade, a number of models were proposed for predicting solar radiation on inclined surfaces. These models have various scopes; applicability to specific surfaces, the requirement for special measuring equipment, or limitations in scope. To find the most suitable model for a given location the hourly outputs predicted by available models are compared with the field measurements of the given location. The main objective of this study is to review on the estimation of the most accurate model or models for estimating solar radiation components for a selected location, by testing various models available in the literature. To increase the amount of incident solar radiation on photovoltaic (PV) panels, the PV panels are mounted on tilted surfaces. This article also provides an up-to-date status of different optimum tilt angles that have been determined in various countries.
Q49|A High Efficiency Charging Strategy for a Supercapacitor Using a Wireless Power Transfer System Based on Inductor/Capacitor/Capacitor (LCC) Compensation Topology|In the application of rail transit vehicles, when using typical wireless power transfer (WPT) systems with series–series (SS) compensation supply power for supercapacitors, the output current is in an approximately inverse relationship with the duty cycle in a wide range. This renders the typical buck circuit control inappropriate. In order to help resolve the above issues, this paper designs inductor/capacitor/capacitor (LCC) compensation with new compensation parameters, which can achieve an adjustable quasi-constant voltage from the input of the inverter to the output of the rectifier. In addition, the two-port network method is used to analyze the resonant compensation circuit. The analysis shows that LCC compensation is more suitable for the WPT system using the supercapacitor as the energy storage device. In the case of LCC compensation topology combined with the charging characteristics of the supercapacitor, an efficient charging strategy is designed, namely first constant current charging, followed by constant power charging. Based on the analysis of LCC compensation, the system has an optimal load, by which the system works at the maximum efficiency point. Combined with the characteristics of the constant voltage output, the system can maintain high efficiency in the constant power stage by making constant output power the same as the optimal power point. Finally, the above design is verified through experiments.
Q49|Energy Management Strategy Based on Multiple Operating States for a Photovoltaic/Fuel Cell/Energy Storage DC Microgrid|It is a great challenge for DC microgrids with stochastic renewable sources and volatility loads to achieve better operation performance. This study proposes an energy management strategy based on multiple operating states for a DC microgrid, which is comprised of a photovoltaic (PV) array, a proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) system, and a battery bank. This proposed strategy can share the power properly and keep the bus voltage steady under different operating states (the state of charge (SOC) of the battery bank, loading conditions, and PV array output power). In addition, a microgrids test platform is established. In order to verify the effectiveness of the proposed energy management strategy, the strategy is implemented in a hardware system and experimentally tested under different operating states. The experimental results illustrate the good performance of the proposed control strategy for the DC microgrid under different scenarios of power generation and load demand.
Q49|State of Charge and State of Health Estimation of AGM VRLA Batteries by Employing a Dual Extended Kalman Filter and an ARX Model for Online Parameter Estimation|State of charge (SOC) and state of health (SOH) are key issues for the application of batteries, especially the absorbent glass mat valve regulated lead-acid (AGM VRLA) type batteries used in the idle stop start systems (ISSs) that are popularly integrated into conventional engine-based vehicles. This is due to the fact that SOC and SOH estimation accuracy is crucial for optimizing battery energy utilization, ensuring safety and extending battery life cycles. The dual extended Kalman filter (DEKF), which provides an elegant and powerful solution, is widely applied in SOC and SOH estimation based on a battery parameter model. However, the battery parameters are strongly dependent on operation conditions such as the SOC, current rate and temperature. In addition, battery parameters change significantly over the life cycle of a battery. As a result, many experimental pretests investigating the effects of the internal and external conditions of a battery on its parameters are required, since the accuracy of state estimation depends on the quality of the information regarding battery parameter changes. In this paper, a novel method for SOC and SOH estimation that combines a DEKF algorithm, which considers hysteresis and diffusion effects, and an auto regressive exogenous (ARX) model for online parameters estimation is proposed. The DEKF provides precise information concerning the battery open circuit voltage (OCV) to the ARX model. Meanwhile, the ARX model continues monitoring parameter variations and supplies information on them to the DEKF. In this way, the estimation accuracy can be maintained despite the changing parameters of a battery. Moreover, online parameter estimation from the ARX model can save the time and effort used for parameter pretests. The validation of the proposed algorithm is given by simulation and experimental results.
Q49|An Experimental Facility to Validate Ground Source Heat Pump Optimisation Models for the Australian Climate|Ground source heat pumps (GSHPs) are one of the most widespread forms of geothermal energy technology. They utilise the near-constant temperature of the ground below the frost line to achieve energy-efficiencies two or three times that of conventional air-conditioners, consequently allowing a significant offset in electricity demand for space heating and cooling. Relatively mature GSHP markets are established in Europe and North America. GSHP implementation in Australia, however, is limited, due to high capital price, uncertainties regarding optimum designs for the Australian climate, and limited consumer confidence in the technology. Existing GSHP design standards developed in the Northern Hemisphere are likely to lead to suboptimal performance in Australia where demand might be much more cooling-dominated. There is an urgent need to develop Australia’s own GSHP system optimisation principles on top of the industry standards to provide confidence to bring the GSHP market out of its infancy. To assist in this, the Queensland Geothermal Energy Centre of Excellence (QGECE) has commissioned a fully instrumented GSHP experimental facility in Gatton, Australia, as a publically-accessible demonstration of the technology and a platform for systematic studies of GSHPs, including optimisation of design and operations. This paper presents a brief review on current GSHP use in Australia, the technical details of the Gatton GSHP facility, and an analysis on the observed cooling performance of this facility to date.
Q49|Possibilities and Limitations of CFD Simulation for Flashing Flow Scenarios in Nuclear Applications|The flashing phenomenon is relevant to nuclear safety analysis, for example by a loss of coolant accident and safety release scenarios. It has been studied intensively by means of experiments and simulations with system codes, but computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation is still at the embryonic stage. Rapid increasing computer speed makes it possible to apply the CFD technology in such complex flow situations. Nevertheless, a thorough evaluation on the limitations and restrictions is still missing, which is however indispensable for reliable application, as well as further development. In the present work, the commonly-used two-fluid model with different mono-disperse assumptions is used to simulate various flashing scenarios. With the help of available experimental data, the results are evaluated, and the limitations are discussed. A poly-disperse method is found necessary for a reliable prediction of mean bubble size and phase distribution. The first attempts to trace the evolution of the bubble size distribution by means of poly-disperse simulations are made.
Q49|Stochastic and Deterministic Unit Commitment Considering Uncertainty and Variability Reserves for High Renewable Integration|The uncertain and variable nature of renewable energy sources in modern power systems raises significant challenges in achieving the dual objective of reliable and economically efficient system operation. To address these challenges, advanced scheduling strategies have evolved during the past years, including the co-optimization of energy and reserves under deterministic or stochastic Unit Commitment (UC) modeling frameworks. This paper presents different deterministic and stochastic day-ahead UC formulations, with focus on the determination, allocation and deployment of reserves. An explicit distinction is proposed between the uncertainty and the variability reserve, capturing the twofold nature of renewable generation. The concept of multi-timing scheduling is proposed and applied in all UC policies, which allows for the optimal procurement of such reserves based on intra-hourly (real-time) intervals, when concurrently optimizing energy and commitments over hourly intervals. The day-ahead scheduling results are tested against different real-time dispatch regimes, with none or limited look-ahead capability, or with the use of the variability reserve, utilizing a modified version of the Greek power system. The results demonstrate the enhanced reliability achieved by applying the multi-timing scheduling concept and explicitly considering the variability reserve, and certain features regarding the allocation and deployment of reserves are discussed.
Q49|Particle Swarm Optimization for Outdoor Lighting Design|Outdoor lighting is an essential service for modern life. However, the high influence of this type of facility on energy consumption makes it necessary to take extra care in the design phase. Therefore, this manuscript describes an algorithm to help light designers to get, in an easy way, the best configuration parameters and to improve energy efficiency, while ensuring a minimum level of overall uniformity. To make this possible, we used a particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm. These algorithms are well established, and are simple and effective to solve optimization problems. To take into account the most influential parameters on lighting and energy efficiency, 500 simulations were performed using DIALux software (4.10.0.2, DIAL, Ludenscheid, Germany). Next, the relation between these parameters was studied using to data mining software. Subsequently, we conducted two experiments for setting parameters that enabled the best configuration algorithm in order to improve efficiency in the proposed process optimization.
Q49|Study on the Adsorption, Diffusion and Permeation Selectivity of Shale Gas in Organics|As kerogen is the main organic component in shale, the adsorption capacity, diffusion and permeability of the gas in kerogen plays an important role in shale gas production. Based on the molecular model of type II kerogen, an organic nanoporous structure was established. The Grand Canonical Monte Carlo (GCMC) and Molecular Dynamics (MD) methods were used to study the adsorption and diffusion capacity of mixed gas systems with different mole ratios of CO 2 and CH 4 in the foregoing nanoporous structure, and gas adsorption, isosteric heats of adsorption and self-diffusion coefficient were obtained. The selective permeation of gas components in the organic pores was further studied. The results show that CO 2 and CH 4 present physical adsorption in the organic nanopores. The adsorption capacity of CO 2 is larger than that of CH 4 in organic pores, but the self-diffusion coefficient of CH 4 in mixed gas is larger than that of CO 2 . Moreover, the self-diffusion coefficient in the horizontal direction is larger than that in the vertical direction. The mixed gas pressure and mole ratio have limited effects on the isosteric heat and the self-diffusion of CH 4 and CO 2 adsorption. Regarding the analysis of mixed gas selective permeation, it is concluded that the adsorption selectivity of CO 2 is larger than that of CH 4 in the organic nanopores. The larger the CO 2 /CH 4 mole ratio, the greater the adsorption and permeation selectivity of mixed gas in shale. The permeation process is mainly controlled by adsorption rather than diffusion. These results are expected to reveal the adsorption and diffusion mechanism of gas in shale organics, which has a great significance for further research.
Q49|A New Method for Simultaneous Determination of the TDC Offset and the Pressure Offset in Fired Cylinders of an Internal Combustion Engine|An innovative computationally efficient method for the simultaneous determination of top dead centre (TDC) offset and pressure offset is presented. It is based on characteristic deviations of the rate of heat release (ROHR) that are specific for both offsets in compression phase and expansion phase after the end of combustion. These characteristic deviations of the ROHR are derived from first principles and they were also confirmed through manual shifts of the pressure trace. The ROHR is calculated based on the first law of thermodynamics using an in-cylinder pressure trace, engine geometrical parameters and operating point specific parameters. The method can be applied in off-line analyses using an averaged pressure trace or in on-line analyses using a single pressure trace. In both application areas the method simultaneously determines the TDC position and the pressure offset within a single processing of the pressure trace, whereas a second refinement step can be performed for obtaining more accurate results as correction factors are determined more accurately using nearly converged input data. Innovative analytic basis of the method allows for significant reduction of the computational times compared to the existing methods for the simultaneous determination of TDC offset and pressure offset in fired conditions. The method was validated on a heavy-duty and a light-duty diesel engine.
Q49|Bidding Strategy for Aggregators of Electric Vehicles in Day-Ahead Electricity Markets|To make full use of the flexible charging and discharging capabilities of the growing number of electric vehicles (EVs), a bidding strategy for EV aggregators to participate in a day-ahead electricity energy market is proposed in this work. The proposed bidding strategy is able to reduce the operating cost of the EV aggregators and to handle the uncertainties of day-ahead market prices properly at the same time. Agreements between the EV owners and the aggregators are discussed, and a hierarchical market structure is proposed. While assuming the aggregators as economic rational entities, the bidding strategy is established based on the market prices, extra battery charging/discharging costs and the expected profits. The bidding clearing system will display the current/temporal market clearance results of the day-ahead market before the final clearance, and hence the market participants can revise their bids and mitigate the risks, to some extent, of forecasted market price forecast errors. Numerical results with a modified IEEE 30-bus system have demonstrated the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed strategy.
Q49|Investigation of the Flow Characteristics of Methane Hydrate Slurries with Low Flow Rates|Gas hydrate blockage in pipelines during offshore production becomes a major problem with increasing water depth. In this work, a series of experiments on gas hydrate formation in a flow loop was performed with low flow rates of 0.33, 0.66, and 0.88 m/s; the effects of the initial subcooling, flow rate, pressure, and morphology were investigated for methane hydrate formation in the flow loop. The results indicate that the differential pressure drop (Δ P ) across two ends of the horizontal straight pipe increases with increasing hydrate concentration at the early stage of gas hydrate formation. When the flow rates of hydrate fluid are low, the higher the subcooling is, the faster the transition of the hydrates macrostructures. Gas hydrates can agglomerate, and sludge hydrates appear at subcoolings of 6.5 and 8.5 °C. The difference between the Δ P values at different flow rates is small, and there is no obvious influence of the flow rates on Δ P . Three hydrate macrostructures were observed: slurry-like, sludge-like, and their transition. When the initial pressure is 8.0 MPa, large methane hydrate blockages appear at the gas hydrate concentration of approximately 7%. Based on the gas–liquid two-phase flow model, a correlation between the gas hydrate concentration and the value of Δ P is also presented. These results can enrich the kinetic data of gas hydrate formation and agglomeration and provide guidance for oil and gas transportation in pipelines.
Q49|Erratum: Shibata, S., et al. Reduced-Capacity Inrush Current Suppressor Using a Matrix Converter in a Wind Power Generation System with Squirrel-Cage Induction Machines. Energies 2016, 9, 223|No abstract is available for this item.
Q49|Optimization of Reducing Sugar Production from Manihot glaziovii Starch Using Response Surface Methodology|Bioethanol is known as a viable alternative fuel to solve both energy and environmental crises. This study used response surface methodology based on the Box-Behnken experimental design to obtain the optimum conditions for and quality of bioethanol production. Enzymatic hydrolysis optimization was performed with selected hydrolysis parameters, including substrate loading, stroke speed, α-amylase concentration and amyloglucosidase concentration. From the experiment, the resulting optimum conditions are 23.88% ( w / v ) substrate loading, 109.43 U/g α-amylase concentration, 65.44 U/mL amyloglucosidase concentration and 74.87 rpm stroke speed, which yielded 196.23 g/L reducing sugar. The fermentation process was also carried out, with a production value of 0.45 g ethanol/g reducing sugar, which is equivalent to 88.61% of ethanol yield after fermentation by using Saccharomyces cerevisiae ( S. cerevisiae ). The physical and chemical properties of the produced ethanol are within the specifications of the ASTM D4806 standard. The good quality of ethanol produced from this study indicates that Manihot glaziovii ( M. glaziovii ) has great potential as bioethanol feedstock.
Q49|An Indicator-Based Approach for Analyzing the Resilience of Transitions for Energy Regions. Part I: Theoretical and Conceptual Considerations|The transition of our current energy system from a fossil-based system to a system based on renewables is likely to be one of the most complex and long-term societal transitions in history. The need for a fundamental system transformation raises the question of how to measure the continuing progress and the resilience of this process over time. This paper aims at developing the conceptualization and operationalization of resilience for energy systems in transition with regard to both social and technical aspects. Based on the resilience concept in social-ecological systems literature, we propose to conceptualize resilience for energy systems building on two core attributes of resilience, namely diversity and connectivity. We present an indicator set to operationalize these key attributes in social and technical systems using: (i) definitions and measurements for three fundamental diversity properties—variety, balance and disparity—and (ii) basic connectivity properties from the social network analysis literature—path length, centrality and modularity. Finally, we reflect on possibilities for an application of these indicators in the social and technical system’s spheres and discuss the added value of the approach for energy transition research.
Q49|Multi-Time Scale Control of Demand Flexibility in Smart Distribution Networks|This paper presents a multi-timescale control strategy to deploy electric vehicle (EV) demand flexibility for simultaneously providing power balancing, grid congestion management, and economic benefits to participating actors. First, an EV charging problem is investigated from consumer, aggregator, and distribution system operator’s perspectives. A hierarchical control architecture (HCA) comprising scheduling, coordinative, and adaptive layers is then designed to realize their coordinative goal. This is realized by integrating multi-time scale controls that work from a day-ahead scheduling up to real-time adaptive control. The performance of the developed method is investigated with high EV penetration in a typical residential distribution grid. The simulation results demonstrate that HCA efficiently utilizes demand flexibility stemming from EVs to solve grid unbalancing and congestions with simultaneous maximization of economic benefits to the participating actors. This is ensured by enabling EV participation in day-ahead, balancing, and regulation markets. For the given network configuration and pricing structure, HCA ensures the EV owners to get paid up to five times the cost they were paying without control.
Q49|Theoretical Analysis of Shrouded Horizontal Axis Wind Turbines|Numerous analytical studies for power augmentation systems can be found in the literature with the goal to improve the performance of wind turbines by increasing the energy density of the air at the rotor. All methods to date are only concerned with the effects of a diffuser as the power augmentation, and this work extends the semi-empirical shrouded wind turbine model introduced first by Foreman to incorporate a converging-diverging nozzle into the system. The analysis is based on assumptions and approximations of the conservation laws to calculate optimal power coefficients and power extraction, as well as augmentation ratios. It is revealed that the power enhancement is proportional to the mass stream rise produced by the nozzle diffuser-augmented wind turbine (NDAWT). Such mass flow rise can only be accomplished through two essential principles: the increase in the area ratios and/or by reducing the negative back pressure at the exit. The thrust coefficient for optimal power production of a conventional bare wind turbine is known to be 8/9, whereas the theoretical analysis of the NDAWT predicts an ideal thrust coefficient either lower or higher than 8/9 depending on the back pressure coefficient at which the shrouded turbine operates. Computed performance expectations demonstrate a good agreement with numerical and experimental results, and it is demonstrated that much larger power coefficients than for traditional wind turbines are achievable. Lastly, the developed model is very well suited for the preliminary design of a shrouded wind turbine where typically many trade-off studies need to be conducted inexpensively.
Q49|Sensor Fault Diagnosis for Aero Engine Based on Online Sequential Extreme Learning Machine with Memory Principle|The on-board sensor fault detection and isolation (FDI) system is essential to guarantee the reliability and safety of an aero engine. In this paper, a novel online sequential extreme learning machine with memory principle (MOS-ELM) is proposed for detecting, isolating, and reconstructing the fault sensor signal of aero engines. In many practical online applications, the sequentially coming data chunk usually possesses a characteristic of timeliness, and the overdue training data may mislead the subsequent learning process. The proposed MOS-ELM can improve the training process by introducing the concept of memory principle into the online sequential extreme learning machine (OS-ELM) to tackle the timeliness of the data chunk. Simulations on some time series problems and some benchmark databases show that MOS-ELM performs better in generalization performance, stability, and prediction accuracy than OS-ELM. The experiment results of the MOS-ELM-based sensor fault diagnosis system also verify the excellent generalization performance of MOS-ELM and indicate the effectiveness and feasibility of the developed diagnosis system.
Q49|Short-Term Forecasting of Electric Loads Using Nonlinear Autoregressive Artificial Neural Networks with Exogenous Vector Inputs|Short-term load forecasting is crucial for the operations planning of an electrical grid. Forecasting the next 24 h of electrical load in a grid allows operators to plan and optimize their resources. The purpose of this study is to develop a more accurate short-term load forecasting method utilizing non-linear autoregressive artificial neural networks (ANN) with exogenous multi-variable input (NARX). The proposed implementation of the network is new: the neural network is trained in open-loop using actual load and weather data, and then, the network is placed in closed-loop to generate a forecast using the predicted load as the feedback input. Unlike the existing short-term load forecasting methods using ANNs, the proposed method uses its own output as the input in order to improve the accuracy, thus effectively implementing a feedback loop for the load, making it less dependent on external data. Using the proposed framework, mean absolute percent errors in the forecast in the order of 1% have been achieved, which is a 30% improvement on the average error using feedforward ANNs, ARMAX and state space methods, which can result in large savings by avoiding commissioning of unnecessary power plants. The New England electrical load data are used to train and validate the forecast prediction.
Q49|A Novel Voltage Control Scheme for Low-Voltage DC Distribution Systems Using Multi-Agent Systems|Low-voltage direct current (LVDC) distribution systems have been evolving into interesting ways of integrating distributed energy resources (DERs) and power electronics loads to local distribution networks. In LVDC distribution systems, voltage regulation is one of the most important issues, whereas AC systems have concerns such as frequency, power factor, reactive power, harmonic distortion and so on. This paper focuses on a voltage control method for a LVDC distribution system based on the concept of multi-agent system (MAS), which can deploy intelligence and decision-making abilities to local areas. This paper proposes a distributed power flow analysis method using local information refined by local agents and communication between agents based on MAS. This paper also proposes a voltage control method by coordinating the main AC/DC converter and multiple DERs. By using the proposed method, we can effectively maintain the line voltages in a pre-defined normal range. The performance of the proposed voltage control method is evaluated by case studies and compared to conventional methods.
Q49|Pt-Ni and Pt-M-Ni (M = Ru, Sn) Anode Catalysts for Low-Temperature Acidic Direct Alcohol Fuel Cells: A Review|In view of a possible use as anode materials in acidic direct alcohol fuel cells, the electro-catalytic activity of Pt-Ni and Pt-M-Ni (M = Ru, Sn) catalysts for methanol and ethanol oxidation has been widely investigated. An overview of literature data regarding the effect of the addition of Ni to Pt and Pt-M on the methanol and ethanol oxidation activity in acid environment of the resulting binary and ternary Ni-containing Pt-based catalysts is presented, highlighting the effect of alloyed and non-alloyed nickel on the catalytic activity of these materials.
Q49|Lobatto-Milstein Numerical Method in Application of Uncertainty Investment of Solar Power Projects|Recently, there has been a growing interest in the production of electricity from renewable energy sources (RES). The RES investment is characterized by uncertainty, which is long-term, costly and depends on feed-in tariff and support schemes. In this paper, we address the real option valuation (ROV) of a solar power plant investment. The real option framework is investigated. This framework considers the renewable certificate price and, further, the cost of delay between establishing and operating the solar power plant. The optimal time of launching the project and assessing the value of the deferred option are discussed. The new three-stage numerical methods are constructed, the Lobatto3C-Milstein (L3CM) methods. The numerical methods are integrated with the concept of Black–Scholes option pricing theory and applied in option valuation for solar energy investment with uncertainty. The numerical results of the L3CM, finite difference and Monte Carlo methods are compared to show the efficiency of our methods. Our dataset refers to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Q49|Hybrid Forecasting Approach Based on GRNN Neural Network and SVR Machine for Electricity Demand Forecasting|Accurate electric power demand forecasting plays a key role in electricity markets and power systems. The electric power demand is usually a non-linear problem due to various unknown reasons, which make it difficult to get accurate prediction by traditional methods. The purpose of this paper is to propose a novel hybrid forecasting method for managing and scheduling the electricity power. EEMD-SCGRNN-PSVR, the proposed new method, combines ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD), seasonal adjustment (S), cross validation (C), general regression neural network (GRNN) and support vector regression machine optimized by the particle swarm optimization algorithm (PSVR). The main idea of EEMD-SCGRNN-PSVR is respectively to forecast waveform and trend component that hidden in demand series to substitute directly forecasting original electric demand. EEMD-SCGRNN-PSVR is used to predict the one week ahead half-hour’s electricity demand in two data sets (New South Wales (NSW) and Victorian State (VIC) in Australia). Experimental results show that the new hybrid model outperforms the other three models in terms of forecasting accuracy and model robustness.
Q49|Optimal Load Shedding for Maximizing Satisfaction in an Islanded Microgrid|A microgrid (MG) is a discrete energy system that can operate either in parallel with or independently from a main power grid. It is designed to enhance reliability, carbon emission reduction, diversification of energy sources, and cost reduction. When a power fault occurs in a grid, an MG operates in an islanded manner from the grid and protects its power generations and loads from disturbance by means of intelligent load shedding. A load shedding is a control procedure that results in autonomous decrease of the power demands of loads in an MG. In this study, we propose a load shedding algorithm for the optimization problem to maximize the satisfaction of system components. The proposed algorithm preferentially assigns the power to the subdemand with a high preference to maximize the satisfaction of power consumers. In addition, the algorithm assigns the power to maximize the power sale and minimize the power surplus for satisfaction of power suppliers. To verify the performance of our algorithm, we implement a multi-agent system (MAS) on top of a conventional development framework and assess the algorithm’s adaptability, satisfaction metric, and running time.
Q49|Conjugate Image Theory Applied on Capacitive Wireless Power Transfer|Wireless power transfer using a magnetic field through inductive coupling is steadily entering the market in a broad range of applications. However, for certain applications, capacitive wireless power transfer using electric coupling might be preferable. In order to obtain a maximum power transfer efficiency, an optimal compensation network must be designed at the input and output ports of the capacitive wireless link. In this work, the conjugate image theory is applied to determine this optimal network as a function of the characteristics of the capacitive wireless link, as well for the series as for the parallel topology. The results are compared with the inductive power transfer system. Introduction of a new concept, the coupling function, enables the description of the compensation network of both an inductive and a capacitive system in two elegant equations, valid for the series and the parallel topology. This approach allows better understanding of the fundamentals of the wireless power transfer link, necessary for the design of an efficient system.
Q49|Effects of a Dual-Loop Exhaust Gas Recirculation System and Variable Nozzle Turbine Control on the Operating Parameters of an Automotive Diesel Engine|Reduction of NO X emissions and fuel consumption are the main topics in engine development, forcing the adoption of complex techniques and components, whose interactions have to be clearly understood for proper and reliable operations and management of the whole system. The investigation presented in this paper aimed at the development of integrated control strategies of turbocharging, high pressure (HP) and low pressure (LP) exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) systems for better NO X emissions and fuel consumption, while analyzing their reciprocal influence and the resulting variations of engine quantities. The study was based on an extended experimental program in three part load engine operating conditions. In the paper a comparison of the behavior of the main engine sub-systems (intake and exhaust circuits, turbocharger turbine and compressor, HP and LP EGR loops) in a wide range of operating modes is presented and discussed, considering open and closed loop approaches for variable nozzle turbine (VNT) control, and showing how these affect engine performance and emissions. The potential of significant decrease in NO X emissions through the integration of HP and LP EGR was confirmed, while a proper VNT management allowed for improved fuel consumption level, if an open loop control scheme is followed. At higher engine speed and load, further actions have to be applied to compensate for observed soot emissions increase.
Q49|The Influence of Acoustic Field Induced by HRT on Oscillation Behavior of a Single Droplet|This paper presents an experimental and theoretical study on the effects of an acoustic field induced by Hartmann Resonance Tube (HRT) on droplet deformation behavior. The characteristics of the acoustic field generated by HRT are investigated. Results show that the acoustic frequency decreases with the increase of the resonator length, the sound pressure level (SPL) increases with the increase of nozzle pressure ratio (NPR), and it is also noted that increasing resonator length can cause SPL to decrease, which has rarely been reported in published literature. Further theoretical analysis reveals that the resonance frequency of a droplet has several modes, and when the acoustic frequency equals the droplet’s frequency, heightened droplet responses are observed with the maximum amplitude of the shape oscillation. The experimental results for different resonator cavity lengths, nozzle pressure ratios and droplet diameters confirm the non-linear nature of this problem, and this conclusion is in good agreement with theoretical analysis. Measurements by high speed camera have shown that the introduction of an acoustic field can greatly enhance droplet oscillation, which means with the use of an ultrasonic atomizer based on HRT, the quality of atomization and combustion can be highly improved.
Q49|Wireless DC Motor Drives with Selectability and Controllability|This paper proposes and implements the concept of wireless DC motor drives, which can achieve the abilities of selective driving and controllable speed. Due to different resonant frequencies of the multiple energy receivers of the associated DC motor drives, the transmitter can be purposely tuned to the specified resonant frequency which matches with the specified receiver, hence driving the specified motor selectively. In the meantime, the burst fire control is used to regulate the operating speed of the motor working at the resonant frequency, hence retaining the maximum power transmission efficiency. Both finite element analysis and experimentation are given to verify the validity of the proposed wireless DC motor drive system. For exemplification, three different resonant frequencies, namely 60 kHz, 100 kHz and 140 kHz, are selected to energize three DC motors. Under the burst fire control method, the speed of each motor can be regulated separately and the wireless power transfer (WPT) system can achieve the measured power transmission efficiency of about 60%.
Q49|Thermal Impact Analysis of Circulating Current in High Power Modular Online Uninterruptible Power Supplies Application|In modular uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs), several DC/AC modules are required to work in parallel. This structure allows the system to be more reliable and flexible. These DC/AC modules share the same DC bus and AC critical bus. Module differences, such as filter inductor, filter capacitor, control parameters, and so on, will make it possible for the potential zero sequence current to flow among the modules. This undesired type of circulating current will bring extra losses to the power semiconductor devices in the system, which should be paid special attention in high power application scenarios. In this paper, plug’n’play modules and cycle control are discussed and validated through experimental results. Moreover, potential zero sequence circulating current impact on power semiconductor devices thermal performance is also analyzed in this paper.
Q49|Energy Rebound as a Potential Threat to a Low-Carbon Future: Findings from a New Exergy-Based National-Level Rebound Approach|150 years ago, Stanley Jevons introduced the concept of energy rebound: that anticipated energy efficiency savings may be “taken back” by behavioural responses. This is an important issue today because, if energy rebound is significant, this would hamper the effectiveness of energy efficiency policies aimed at reducing energy use and associated carbon emissions. However, empirical studies which estimate national energy rebound are rare and, perhaps as a result, rebound is largely ignored in energy-economy models and associated policy. A significant difficulty lies in the components of energy rebound assessed in empirical studies: most examine direct and indirect rebound in the static economy, excluding potentially significant rebound of the longer term structural response of the national economy. In response, we develop a novel exergy-based approach to estimate national energy rebound for the UK and US (1980–2010) and China (1981–2010). Exergy—as “available energy”—allows a consistent, thermodynamic-based metric for national-level energy efficiency. We find large energy rebound in China, suggesting that improvements in China’s energy efficiency may be associated with increased energy consumption (“backfire”). Conversely, we find much lower (partial) energy rebound for the case of the UK and US. These findings support the hypothesis that producer-sided economies (such as China) may exhibit large energy rebound, reducing the effectiveness of energy efficiency, unless other policy measures (e.g., carbon taxes) are implemented. It also raises the prospect we need to deploy renewable energy sources faster than currently planned, if (due to rebound) energy efficiency policies cannot deliver the scale of energy reduction envisaged to meet climate targets.
Q49|Low-Carbon Energy Development in Indonesia in Alignment with Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) by 2030|This study analyzed the role of low-carbon energy technologies in reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of Indonesia’s energy sector by 2030. The aim of this study was to provide insights into the Indonesian government’s approach to developing a strategy and plan for mitigating emissions and achieving Indonesia’s emission reduction targets by 2030, as pledged in the country’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution. The Asia-Pacific Integrated Model/Computable General Equilibrium (AIM/CGE) model was used to quantify three scenarios that had the same socioeconomic assumptions: baseline, countermeasure (CM)1, and CM2, which had a higher emission reduction target than that of CM1. Results of the study showed that an Indonesian low-carbon energy system could be achieved with two pillars, namely, energy efficiency measures and deployment of less carbon-intensive energy systems (i.e., the use of renewable energy in the power and transport sectors, and the use of natural gas in the power sector and in transport). Emission reductions would also be satisfied through the electrification of end-user consumption where the electricity supply becomes decarbonized by deploying renewables for power generation. Under CM1, Indonesia could achieve a 15.5% emission reduction target (compared to the baseline scenario). This reduction could be achieved using efficiency measures that reduce final energy demand by 4%; This would require the deployment of geothermal power plants at a rate six times greater than the baseline scenario and four times the use of hydropower than that used in the baseline scenario. Greater carbon reductions (CM2; i.e., a 27% reduction) could be achieved with similar measures to CM1 but with more intensive penetration. Final energy demand would need to be cut by 13%, deployment of geothermal power plants would need to be seven times greater than at baseline, and hydropower use would need to be five times greater than the baseline case. Carbon prices under CM1 and CM2 were US$16 and US$63 (2005)/tCO 2 , respectively. The mitigation scenarios for 2030 both had a small positive effect on gross domestic product (GDP) compared to the baseline scenario (0.6% and 0.3% for CM1 and CM2, respectively). This is mainly due to the combination of two assumptions. The first is that there would be a great increase in coal-fired power in the baseline scenario. The other assumption is that there is low productivity in coal-related industries. Eventually, when factors such as capital and labor shift from coal-related industries to other low-carbon-emitting sectors in the CM cases are put in place, the total productivity of the economy would offset low-carbon investment.
Q49|Multi-Objective Optimization of Thin-Film Silicon Solar Cells with Metallic and Dielectric Nanoparticles|Thin-film solar cells enable a strong reduction of the amount of silicon needed to produce photovoltaic panels but their efficiency lowers. Placing metallic or dielectric nanoparticles over the silicon substrate increases the light trapping into the panel thanks to the plasmonic scattering from nanoparticles at the surface of the cell. The goal of this paper is to optimize the geometry of a thin-film solar cell with silver and silica nanoparticles in order to improve its efficiency, taking into account the amount of silver. An efficient evolutionary algorithm is applied to perform the optimization with a reduced computing time.
Q49|A Dynamic Control Strategy for Hybrid Electric Vehicles Based on Parameter Optimization for Multiple Driving Cycles and Driving Pattern Recognition|The driving pattern has an important influence on the parameter optimization of the energy management strategy (EMS) for hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs). A new algorithm using simulated annealing particle swarm optimization (SA-PSO) is proposed for parameter optimization of both the power system and control strategy of HEVs based on multiple driving cycles in order to realize the minimum fuel consumption without impairing the dynamic performance. Furthermore, taking the unknown of the actual driving cycle into consideration, an optimization method of the dynamic EMS based on driving pattern recognition is proposed in this paper. The simulation verifications for the optimized EMS based on multiple driving cycles and driving pattern recognition are carried out using Matlab/Simulink platform. The results show that compared with the original EMS, the former strategy reduces the fuel consumption by 4.36% and the latter one reduces the fuel consumption by 11.68%. A road test on the prototype vehicle is conducted and the effectiveness of the proposed EMS is validated by the test data.
Q49|Study on the Tribological Characteristics of Australian Native First Generation and Second Generation Biodiesel Fuel|Biodiesels are a renewable energy source, and they have the potential to be used as alternatives to diesel fuel. The aim of this study is to investigate the wear and friction characteristics of Australian native first generation and second generation biodiesels using a four-ball tribo tester. The biodiesel was produced through a two-step transesterification process and characterized according to the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards. The tribological experiment was carried out at a constant 1800 rpm and different loads and temperatures. In addition, the surface morphology of the ball was tested by scanning electron microscope (SEM)/energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) analysis. The test results indicated that biodiesel fuels have a lower coefficient of frictions (COF) and lower wear scar diameter (WSD) up to 83.50% and 41.28%, respectively, compared to conventional diesel fuel. The worn surface area results showed that biodiesel fuel has a minimum percentage of C and O, except Fe, compared to diesel. In addition, the worn surface area for diesel was found (2.20%–27.92%) to be higher than biodiesel. The findings of this study indicated that both first and second generation biodiesel fuels have better tribological performance than diesel fuel, and between the biodiesel fuels, macadamia biodiesel showed better lubrication performance.
Q49|Coordinated Control of Superconducting Fault Current Limiter and Superconducting Magnetic Energy Storage for Transient Performance Enhancement of Grid-Connected Photovoltaic Generation System|In regard to the rapid development of renewable energy sources, more and more photovoltaic (PV) generation systems have been connected to main power networks, and it is critical to enhance their transient performance under short-circuit faults conditions. This paper proposes and studies the coordinated control of a flux-coupling-type superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL) and a superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES), to improve the fault ride through (FRT) capability and smooth the power fluctuation of a grid-connected PV generation system. Theoretical analyses of the device structure, operating principle and control strategy are conducted, and a detailed simulation model of 100 kW class PV generation system is built in MATLAB/SIMULINK. During the simulations of the symmetrical and asymmetrical faults, the maximum power point tracking (MPPT) control is disabled, and four different cases including without auxiliary, with SFCL, with SMES, and with SFCL-SMES, are compared. From the demonstrated results, the combination of without MPPT and with SFCL-SMES can more efficiently improve the point of common coupling (PCC) voltage sag, inhibit the DC-link overvoltage and alleviate the power fluctuation. Finally, a preliminary parameter optimization method is suggested for the SFCL and the SMES, and it is helpful to promote their future application in the real PV projects.
Q49|Energy Performance and Radial Force of a Mixed-Flow Pump with Symmetrical and Unsymmetrical Tip Clearances|The energy performance and radial force of a mixed flow pump with symmetrical and unsymmetrical tip clearance are investigated in this paper. As the tip clearance increases, the pump head and efficiency both decrease. The center of the radial force on the principal axis is located at the coordinate origin when the tip clearance is symmetrical, and moves to the third quadrant when the tip clearance is unsymmetrical. Analysis results show that the total radial force on the principal axis is closely related to the fluctuation of mass flow rate in each single flow channel. Unsteady simulations show that the dominant frequencies of radial force on the hub and blade correspond to the blade number, vane number, or double blade number because of the rotor stator interaction. The radial force on the blade pressure side decreases with the tip clearance increase because of leakage flow. The unsymmetrical tip clearances in an impeller induce uneven leakage flow rate and then result in unsymmetrical work ability of each blade and flow pattern in each channel. Thus, the energy performance decreases and the total radial force increases for a mixed flow pump with unsymmetrical tip clearance.
Q49|Design Parameters of Vortex Pumps: A Meta-Analysis of Experimental Studies|Vortex pumps can impel solid-containing fluids and are therefore widely applied, from wastewater transport to the food industry. Despite constant efforts to improve vortex pumps, however, they have remained relatively inefficient compared to conventional centrifugal pumps. To find an optimized design of vortex pumps, this paper provides a systematic analysis on experimental studies that investigated how variations in geometric parameters influence vortex pump characteristics, in particular the pump head, the pressure coefficient and the efficiency for best point operation. To this end, an extensive literature search was conducted, and eighteen articles with 53 primary investigations were identified and meta-integrated. This showed that it is not yet clarified how vortex pumps operate. Two different assumptions of the underlying operating principle of a vortex pump lead to diverging design principles. From the results of this meta-analysis, we deduce recommendations for a more efficient design of a vortex pump and emphasize further aspects on the underlying operating principle of a vortex pump.
Q49|Development of an Nearly Zero Emission Building (nZEB) Life Cycle Cost Assessment Tool for Fast Decision Making in the Early Design Phase|An economic feasibility optimization method for the life cycle cost (LCC) has been developed to apply energy saving techniques in the early design stages of a building. The method was developed using default data (e.g., operation schedules), energy consumption prediction equations and cost prediction equations utilizing design variables considered in the early design phase. With certain equations developed, an LCC model was constructed using the computational program MATLAB, to create an automated optimization process. To verify the results from the newly developed assessment tool, a case study on an office building was performed to outline the results of the designer’s proposed model and the cost optimal model.
Q49|Battery Internal Temperature Estimation for LiFePO 4 Battery Based on Impedance Phase Shift under Operating Conditions|An impedance-based temperature estimation method is investigated considering the electrochemical non-equilibrium with short-term relaxation time for facilitating the vehicular application. Generally, sufficient relaxation time is required for battery electrochemical equilibrium before the impedance measurement. A detailed experiment is performed to investigate the regularity of the battery impedance in short-term relaxation time after switch-off current excitation, which indicates that the impedance can be measured and also has systematical decrement with the relaxation time growth. Based on the discussion of impedance variation in electrochemical perspective, as well as the monotonic relationship between impedance phase shift and battery internal temperature in the electrochemical equilibrium state, an exponential equation that accounts for both measured phase shift and relaxation time is established to correct the measuring deviation caused by electrochemical non-equilibrium. Then, a multivariate linear equation coupled with ambient temperature is derived considering the temperature gradients between the active part and battery surface. Equations stated above are all identified with the embedded thermocouple experimentally. In conclusion, the temperature estimation method can be a valuable alternative for temperature monitoring during cell operating, and serve the functionality as an efficient implementation in battery thermal management system for electric vehicles (EVs) and hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs).
Q49|Ion Migration in the Process of Water Freezing under Alternating Electric Field and Its Impact on Insulator Flashover|Ice flashover threatens the security and reliability of power transmission. However, the ice flashover mechanism of insulators remains poorly understood. This study analyses water droplet freezing and ion distribution in ice layer under alternating electric field. It also investigates ion migration during icing process of insulator string under alternating electric field and its effects on insulator flashover. Results showed that the average freezing time of water droplets was related to electric field strength. The extent of ion migration during freezing decreased with increasing electric field strength. The maximal melting water conductivity of the ice layer and icicle of the insulator formed under energized condition was higher than the corresponding freezing water conductivity but lower than that under non-energized condition. Furthermore, the hanging location of each insulator significantly affected the melting water conductivity of the ice layer. The surface conductivity of the ice layer increased because of the conductive ion migration in freezing water during freezing, which was an important factor that decreased the flashover voltage of the ice-covered insulator. The existence of alternating electric field would impact the extent of ion migration. This study may serve as a reference for updating prediction flashover model of ice-covered insulators during the melting period.
Q49|Investigation of Ethanol Production Potential from Lignocellulosic Material without Enzymatic Hydrolysis Using the Ultrasound Technique|This research investigates ethanol production from waste lignocellulosic material (sugarcane bagasse). The bagasse was first pretreated using chemicals and ultrasound techniques. These pretreatment techniques were applied separately and combined. The pretreated bagasse was then fermented anaerobically for biofuel production without enzymatic hydrolysis. The results showed higher ethanol production than those reported in the literature. The maximum ethanol production of 820 mg/L was achieved with a combination of ultrasound (60 amplitude level, 127 W) and acid (3% H 2 SO 4 concentration). The combination of two-step pretreatment such as an ultrasound (50 amplitude level, 109 W) with acid (3% H 2 SO 4 concentration) and then an ultrasound with alkaline (23% NaOH concentration) generated 911 mg/L of ethanol.
Q49|Non-Linear Behavioral Modeling for DC-DC Converters and Dynamic Analysis of Distributed Energy Systems|In modern distributed energy systems (DES), focus is shifting from the conventional centralized approach towards distributed architectures. However, modeling and analysis of these systems is more complex, as it involves the interface of multiple energy sources with many different type of loads through power electronics converters. The integration of power electronics converters allows distributed renewable energy sources to become part of modern electronics power distribution systems (EPDS). It will also facilitate the ongoing research towards DC-based DES which is mostly composed of commercial DC-DC converters whose internal structure and parameters are unknown. For the system level analysis, the behavioral modeling technique is the only choice. Since most power electronics converters are non-linear systems and linear models can’t model their dynamics to a desired level of accuracy, hence non-linear modeling is required for accurate modeling. The non-linear modeling approach presented here aims to develop behavioral models that can predict the response of the system over the entire operating range. In this work, either a lookup table or a polytopic structure-based modeling technique is used. The technique is further applied to cascade and parallel connected converters, being two DES scenarios. First the procedure is verified via application to switching models in a simulation and then validated for commercial converters via experiments. The results show that the developed behavioral models accurately predict both the transient and steady state response.
Q49|Power Consumption Analysis of Electrical Installations at Healthcare Facility|This paper presents a methodology for power consumption estimation considering harmonic and interharmonic content and then it is compared to the power consumption estimation commonly done by commercial equipment based on the fundamental frequency, and how they can underestimate the power consumption considering power quality disturbances (PQD). For this purpose, data of electrical activity at the electrical distribution boards in a healthcare facility is acquired for a long time period with proprietary equipment. An analysis in the acquired current and voltage signals is done, in order to compare the power consumption centered in the fundamental frequency with the generalized definition of power consumption. The results obtained from the comparison in the power consumption estimation show differences between 4% and 10% of underestimated power consumption. Thus, it is demonstrated that the presence of harmonic and interharmonic content provokes a significant underestimation of power consumption using only the power consumption centered at the fundamental frequency.
Q49|Thermal Performance for Wet Cooling Tower with Different Layout Patterns of Fillings under Typical Crosswind Conditions|A thermal-state model experimental study was performed in lab to investigate the thermal performance of a wet cooling tower with different kinds of filling layout patterns under windless and 0.4 m/s crosswind conditions. In this paper, the contrast analysis was focused on comparing a uniform layout pattern and one kind of optimal non-uniform layout pattern when the environmental crosswind speed is 0 m/s and 0.4 m/s. The experimental results proved that under windless conditions, the heat transfer coefficient and total heat rejection of circulating water for the optimal non-uniform layout pattern can enhance by approximately 40% and 28%, respectively, compared with the uniform layout pattern. It was also discovered that the optimal non-uniform pattern can dramatically relieve the influence of crosswind on the thermal performance of the tower when the crosswind speed is equal to 0.4 m/s. For the uniform layout pattern, the heat transfer coefficient under 0.4 m/s crosswind conditions decreased by 9.5% compared with the windless conditions, while that value lowered only by 2.0% for the optimal non-uniform layout pattern. It has been demonstrated that the optimal non-uniform layout pattern has the better thermal performance under 0.4 m/s crosswind condition.
Q49|Assessment against Experiments of Devolatilization and Char Burnout Models for the Simulation of an Aerodynamically Staged Swirled Low-NO x Pulverized Coal Burner|In the next few years, even though there will be a continuous growth of renewables and a loss of the share of fossil fuel, energy production will still be strongly dependent on fossil fuels. It is expected that coal will continue to play an important role as a primary energy source in the next few decades due to its lower cost and higher availability with respect to other fossil fuels. However, in order to improve the sustainability of energy production from fossil fuels, in terms of pollutant emissions and energy efficiency, the development of advanced investigation tools is crucial. In particular, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations are needed in order to support the design process of low emission burners. Even if in the literature several combustion models can be found, the assessment of their performance against detailed experimental measurements on full-scale pulverized coal burners is lacking. In this paper, the numerical simulation of a full-scale low-NO x , aerodynamically-staged, pulverized coal burner for electric utilities tested in the 48 MW th plant at the Combustion Environment Research Centre (CCA - Centro Combustione e Ambiente) of Ansaldo Caldaie S.p.A. in Gioia del Colle (Italy) is presented. In particular, this paper is focused on both devolatilization and char burnout models. The parameters of each model have been set according to the coal characteristics without any tuning based on the experimental data. Thanks to a detailed description of the complex geometry of the actual industrial burner and, in particular, of the pulverized coal inlet distribution (considering the entire primary air duct, in order to avoid any unrealistic assumption), a correct selection of both devolatilization and char burnout models and a selection of suited parameters for the NO x modeling, accurate results have been obtained in terms of NO x formation. Since the model parameters have been evaluated a priori, the numerical approach proposed here could be suitable to be applied as a performance prediction tool in the design of pulverized coal burners.
Q49|Performance Analysis of Data-Driven and Model-Based Control Strategies Applied to a Thermal Unit Model|The paper presents the design and the implementation of different advanced control strategies that are applied to a nonlinear model of a thermal unit. A data-driven grey-box identification approach provided the physically–meaningful nonlinear continuous-time model, which represents the benchmark exploited in this work. The control problem of this thermal unit is important, since it constitutes the key element of passive air conditioning systems. The advanced control schemes analysed in this paper are used to regulate the outflow air temperature of the thermal unit by exploiting the inflow air speed, whilst the inflow air temperature is considered as an external disturbance. The reliability and robustness issues of the suggested control methodologies are verified with a Monte Carlo (MC) analysis for simulating modelling uncertainty, disturbance and measurement errors. The achieved results serve to demonstrate the effectiveness and the viable application of the suggested control solutions to air conditioning systems. The benchmark model represents one of the key issues of this study, which is exploited for benchmarking different model-based and data-driven advanced control methodologies through extensive simulations. Moreover, this work highlights the main features of the proposed control schemes, while providing practitioners and heating, ventilating and air conditioning engineers with tools to design robust control strategies for air conditioning systems.
Q49|Impact of Battery Energy Storage System Operation Strategy on Power System: An Urban Railway Load Case under a Time-of-Use Tariff|Customer-owned battery energy storage systems (BESS) have been used to reduce electricity costs of energy storage owners (ESOs) under a time-of-use (TOU) tariff in Korea. However, the current TOU tariff can unintentionally induce customer’s electricity usage to have a negative impact on power systems. This paper verifies the impact of different BESS operation strategies on power systems under a TOU tariff by analyzing the TOU tariff structure and the customer’s load pattern. First, several BESS operation strategies of ESO are proposed to reduce the electricity cost. In addition, a degradation cost calculation method for lithium ion batteries is considered for the ESO to determine the optimal BESS operation strategy that maximizes both electricity cost and annual investment cost. The optimal BESS operation strategy that maximizes ESO’s net benefit is illustrated by simulation using an urban railway load data from Namgwangju Station, Korea. The results show that BESS connected to urban railway loads can negative impact power system operation. This is due to the high BESS degradation costs and lack of incentive of differential rates in TOU tariff that can effectively induce proper demand response.
Q49|Stability Analysis and Stability Enhancement Based on Virtual Harmonic Resistance for Meshed DC Distributed Power Systems with Constant Power Loads|This paper addresses the stability issue of the meshed DC distributed power systems (DPS) with constant power loads (CPLs) and proposes a stability enhancement method based on virtual harmonic resistance. In previous researches, the network dynamics of the meshed DC DPS are often ignored, which affects the derivation of the equivalent system impendence. In addition, few of them have considered the meshed DC DPS including multiple sources with voltage-controlled converters and CPLs. To tackle the aforementioned challenge, this paper mainly makes the following efforts. The component connection method (CCM) is employed and expanded to derive the stability criterion of the meshed DC DPS with CPLs. This stability criterion can be simplified to relate only with the network node admittance matrix, the output impendences of the sources, and the input admittances of the CPLs. A virtual harmonic resistance through the second-order generalized integrator (SOGI) is added in the source with the voltage-controlled converter to lower the peak of the source output impendence, which can enhance the stability of the meshed DC DPS. The effectiveness of the proposed stability criterion and stability enhancement method are verified by nonlinear dynamic simulations.
Q49|Thermochemical Storage of Middle Temperature Wasted Heat by Functionalized C/Mg(OH) 2 Hybrid Materials|For the thermochemical performance implementation of Mg(OH) 2 as a heat storage medium, several hybrid materials have been investigated. For this study, high-performance hybrid materials have been developed by exploiting the authors’ previous findings. Expanded graphite (EG)/carbon nanotubes (CNTs)-Mg(OH) 2 hybrid materials have been prepared through Mg(OH) 2 deposition-precipitation over functionalized, i.e., oxidized, or un-functionalized EG or CNTs. The heat storage performances of the carbon-based hybrid materials have been investigated through a laboratory-scale experimental simulation of the heat storage/release cycles, carried out by a thermogravimetric apparatus. This study offers a critical evaluation of the thermochemical performances of developed materials through their comparison in terms of heat storage and output capacities per mass and volume unit. It was demonstrated that both EG and CNTs improves the thermochemical performances of the storage medium in terms of reaction rate and conversion with respect to pure Mg(OH) 2 . With functionalized EG/CNTs-Mg(OH) 2 , (i) the potential heat storage and output capacities per mass unit of Mg(OH) 2 have been completely exploited; and (ii) higher heat storage and output capacities per volume unit were obtained. That means, for technological applications, as smaller volume at equal stored/released heat.
Q49|The Effect of the Angle of Inclination on the Efficiency in a Medium-Temperature Flat Plate Solar Collector|In this experimental work, the effects of the inclination angle β and the ( T i − T a )/ G on the efficiency and the U L -value were investigated on a medium-temperature flat plate solar collector. The experiments were based on steady-state energy balance, by heat flow calorimetry at indoor conditions and considering the standard American National Standard Institute/American Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ANSI/ASHRAE) 93-2010. The solar radiation was emulated by the Joule effect using a proportional integral derivative (PID) control considering two conditions of the absorber temperature, Case 1: ( T o − T i ) > 0, and Case 2: ( T o − T i ) = 0. The inclination angles were 0°–90° and the ( T i − T a )/ G were 0.044–0.083 m 2 ·°C/W and 0.124–0.235 for Case 1 and Case 2, respectively. The variations of β and ( T i − T a )/ G cause efficiency changes up to 0.37–0.45 (21.6%) and 0.31–0.45 (45.0%), respectively, for Case 1. Also, the U L (β) reached changes up to 10.1–12.0 W/m 2 ·°C (19.2%) and 8.4–12.0 W/m 2 ·°C (41.7%), respectively, for Case 1. The most significant changes of U L (β)/ U L (90°) vs. β were 8.0% at the horizontal position for Case 1, while for Case 2, the maximum change was 1.8% only. Therefore, the changes of the inclination angle cause significant variations of the convective flow patterns within the collector, which leads to considerable variation of the collector efficiency and its U L value.
Q49|Thermal Analysis of a Solar Powered Absorption Cooling System with Fully Mixed Thermal Storage at Startup|A simple effect one stage ammonia-water absorption cooling system fueled by solar energy is analyzed. The considered system is composed by a parabolic trough collector concentrating solar energy into a tubular receiver for heating water. This is stored in a fully mixed thermal storage tank and used in the vapor generator of the absorption cooling system. Time dependent cooling load is considered for the air conditioning of a residential two-storey house. A parametric study is performed to analyze the operation stability of the cooling system with respect to solar collector and storage tank dimensions. The results emphasized that there is a specific storage tank dimension associated to a specific solar collector dimension that could ensure the longest continuous startup operation of the cooling system when constant mass flow rates inside the system are assumed.
Q49|An Optimal Augmented Monotonic Tracking Controller for Aircraft Engines with Output Constraints|This paper proposes a novel min-max control scheme for aircraft engines, with the aim of transferring a set of regulated outputs between two set-points, while ensuring a set of auxiliary outputs remain within prescribed constraints. In view of this, an optimal augmented monotonic tracking controller (OAMTC) is proposed, by considering a linear plant with input integration, to enhance the ability of the control system to reject uncertainty in system parameters and ensure no crossing limits. The key idea is to use the eigenvalue and eigenvector placement method and genetic algorithms to shape the output responses. The approach is validated by numerical simulation. The results show that the designed OAMTC controller can achieve a satisfactory dynamic and steady performance and keep the auxiliary outputs within constraints in the transient regime.
Q49|A Mixed Logical Dynamical-Model Predictive Control (MLD-MPC) Energy Management Control Strategy for Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs)|Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) can be considered as a hybrid system (HS) which includes the continuous state variable, discrete event, and operation constraint. Thus, a model predictive control (MPC) strategy for PHEVs based on the mixed logical dynamical (MLD) model and short-term vehicle speed prediction is proposed in this paper. Firstly, the mathematical model of the controlled PHEV is set-up to evaluate the energy consumption using the linearized models of core power components. Then, based on the recognition of driving intention and the past vehicle speed data, a nonlinear auto-regressive (NAR) neural network structure is designed to predict the vehicle speed for known driving profiles of city buses and the predicted vehicle speed is used to calculate the total required torque. Next, a MLD model is established with appropriate constraints for six possible driving modes. By solving the objective function with the Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) algorithm, the optimal motor torque and the corresponding driving mode sequence within the speed prediction horizon can be obtained. Finally, the proposed energy control strategy shows substantial improvement in fuel economy in the simulation results.
Q49|Experimental Analysis and Full Prediction Model of a 5-DOF Motorized Spindle|The cost and power consumption of DC power amplifiers are much greater than that of AC power converters. Compared to a motorized spindle supported with DC magnetic bearings, a motorized spindle supported with AC magnetic bearings is inexpensive and more efficient. This paper studies a five-degrees-of-freedom (5-DOF) motorized spindle supported with AC hybrid magnetic bearings (HMBs). Most models of suspension forces, except a “switching model”, are quite accurate, but only in a particular operating area and not in regional coverage. If a “switching model” is applied to a 5-DOF motorized spindle, the real-time performance of the control system can be significantly decreased due to the large amount of data processing for both displacement and current. In order to solve this defect, experiments based on the “switching model” are performed, and the resulting data are analyzed. Using the data analysis results, a “full prediction model” based on the operating state is proposed to improve real-time performance and precision. Finally, comparative, verification and stiffness tests are conducted to verify the improvement of the proposed model. Results of the tests indicate that the rotor has excellent characteristics, such as good real-time performance, superior anti-interference performance with load and the accuracy of the model in full zone. The satisfactory experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the “full prediction model” applied to the control system under different operating stages. Therefore, the results of the experimental analysis and the proposed full prediction model can provide a control system of a 5-DOF motorized spindle with the most suitable mathematical models of the suspension force.
Q49|Detection of Internal Short Circuit in Lithium Ion Battery Using Model-Based Switching Model Method|Early detection of an internal short circuit (ISCr) in a Li-ion battery can prevent it from undergoing thermal runaway, and thereby ensure battery safety. In this paper, a model-based switching model method (SMM) is proposed to detect the ISCr in the Li-ion battery. The SMM updates the model of the Li-ion battery with ISCr to improve the accuracy of ISCr resistance R I S C f estimates. The open circuit voltage (OCV) and the state of charge (SOC) are estimated by applying the equivalent circuit model, and by using the recursive least squares algorithm and the relation between OCV and SOC. As a fault index, the R I S C f is estimated from the estimated OCVs and SOCs to detect the ISCr, and used to update the model; this process yields accurate estimates of OCV and R I S C f . Then the next R I S C f is estimated and used to update the model iteratively. Simulation data from a MATLAB/Simulink model and experimental data verify that this algorithm shows high accuracy of R I S C f estimates to detect the ISCr, thereby helping the battery management system to fulfill early detection of the ISCr.
Q49|Ensemble Prediction Model with Expert Selection for Electricity Price Forecasting|Forecasting of electricity prices is important in deregulated electricity markets for all of the stakeholders: energy wholesalers, traders, retailers and consumers. Electricity price forecasting is an inherently difficult problem due to its special characteristic of dynamicity and non-stationarity. In this paper, we present a robust price forecasting mechanism that shows resilience towards the aggregate demand response effect and provides highly accurate forecasted electricity prices to the stakeholders in a dynamic environment. We employ an ensemble prediction model in which a group of different algorithms participates in forecasting 1-h ahead the price for each hour of a day. We propose two different strategies, namely, the Fixed Weight Method (FWM) and the Varying Weight Method (VWM), for selecting each hour’s expert algorithm from the set of participating algorithms. In addition, we utilize a carefully engineered set of features selected from a pool of features extracted from the past electricity price data, weather data and calendar data. The proposed ensemble model offers better results than the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) method, the Pattern Sequence-based Forecasting (PSF) method and our previous work using Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) alone on the datasets for New York, Australian and Spanish electricity markets.
Q49|Tie-Line Bias Control Applicability to Load Frequency Control for Multi-Area Interconnected Power Systems of Complex Topology|The tie-line bias control (TBC) method has been widely used in the load frequency control (LFC) of multi-area interconnected systems. However, it should be questioned whether the conventional TBC can still apply to LFC when considering the complication of structures of power systems. LFC, in essence, is to stabilize system frequency/tie-line power by controlling controlled outputs’ area control error (ACE). In this paper, relations between LFC control variables and controlled outputs are expressed as a system of equations, based on which an exemplary ring network is studied. Sufficient and necessary conditions for TBC applicability is presented, and a novel LFC mode is proposed for a general ring network where TBC cannot work. Finally, TBC applicability to multi-area systems with general topology is studied, and a general LFC mode is proposed for systems where TBC is not definitely applicable, thus rendering routines that may guide LFC design of future power systems with more complex topologies.
Q49|Effect on Torque and Thrust of the Pointed Tip Shape of a Wind Turbine Blade|This paper presents the effect of the tip shape of a wind turbine blade on aerodynamic forces, including the effects of separation, transition and stall. A National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) Phase-VI wind turbine blade was used, in which the shape of the tip was modified to a pointed tip. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations were employed for the analysis and the results were compared with the original NREL blade CFD and experimental data using ANSYS CFX (Ansys Inc., Delaware, PA, USA). To predict the separation and separation-induced transition on both near wall and far away, the shear-stress-transport (SST) Gamma-Theta turbulent model was used. The stall onset of a 20° angle of attack and its effects were also analyzed and presented. The value of torque with the pointed tip blade was found to be 3%–8% higher than the original NREL blade showing the benefit of the pointed tip. Normal force coefficient is lower at the tip for the pointed tip blade, which results in lower deformation of the blade. It was found that the pointed-tip blade is more efficient in terms of generating torque than the original NREL Phase-VI blade in the dynamic stall region of 10–15 m/s wind speeds.
Q49|A Frequency Control Approach for Hybrid Power System Using Multi-Objective Optimization|A hybrid power system uses many wind turbine generators (WTG) and solar photovoltaics (PV) in isolated small areas. However, the output power of these renewable sources is not constant and can diverge quickly, which has a serious effect on system frequency and the continuity of demand supply. In order to solve this problem, this paper presents a new frequency control scheme for a hybrid power system to ensure supplying a high-quality power in isolated areas. The proposed power system consists of a WTG, PV, aqua-electrolyzer (AE), fuel cell (FC), battery energy storage system (BESS), flywheel (FW) and diesel engine generator (DEG). Furthermore, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (EVs) are implemented at the customer side. A full-order observer is utilized to estimate the supply error. Then, the estimated supply error is considered in a frequency domain. The high-frequency component is reduced by BESS and FW; while the low-frequency component of supply error is mitigated using FC, EV and DEG. Two PI controllers are implemented in the proposed system to control the system frequency and reduce the supply error. The epsilon multi-objective genetic algorithm ( ε -MOGA) is applied to optimize the controllers’ parameters. The performance of the proposed control scheme is compared with that of recent well-established techniques, such as a PID controller tuned by the quasi-oppositional harmony search algorithm (QOHSA). The effectiveness and robustness of the hybrid power system are investigated under various operating conditions.
Q49|Field Synergy Analysis and Optimization of the Thermal Behavior of Lithium Ion Battery Packs|In this study, a three dimensional (3D) modeling has been built for a lithium ion battery pack using the field synergy principle to obtain a better thermal distribution. In the model, the thermal behavior of the battery pack was studied by reducing the maximum temperature, improving the temperature uniformity and considering the difference between the maximum and maximum temperature of the battery pack. The method is further verified by simulation results based on different environmental temperatures and discharge rates. The thermal behavior model demonstrates that the design and cooling policy of the battery pack is crucial for optimizing the air-outlet patterns of electric vehicle power cabins.
Q49|Day-Ahead Scheduling Considering Demand Response as a Frequency Control Resource|The development of advanced metering technologies makes demand response (DR) able to provide fast response services, e.g., primary frequency control. It is recognized that DR can contribute to the primary frequency control like thermal generators. This paper proposes a day-ahead scheduling method that considers DR as a frequency control resource, so that the DR resources can be dispatched properly with other resources. In the proposed method, the objective of frequency control is realized by defining a frequency limit equation under a supposed contingency. The frequency response model is used to model the dynamics of system frequency. The nonlinear frequency limit equation is transformed to a linear arithmetic equation by piecewise linearization, so that the problem can be solved by mixed integer linear programming (MILP). Finally, the proposed method is verified on numerical examples.
Q49|Numerical Investigation of the Time-Dependent and the Proppant Dominated Stress Shadow Effects in a Transverse Multiple Fracture System and Optimization|In this paper, a numerical study is conducted to investigate the stress shadow effects (stress reorientation and change) during hydraulic fracturing in a transverse multiple fracture system. A numerical model is used for the numerical study. It is a 3D model and can simulate the fracture operation from injection begin to full closure (fracture contact). Therefore, there is no need to assume the fracture geometry for the investigation of the stress shadow effects (unlike previous studies). In the numerical study, the first and second operations in a fictive transverse multiple fracture system are simulated, meanwhile the stress shadow effects and their influences on the propagation and proppant placement of the second fracture are investigated. According to the results, the following conclusions are discerned: (1) most proppants are located in the lower part of the reservoir, even below the perforation; (2) the stress shadow effects are time-dependent and proppant dominated; (3) the stress shadow effects affect the fracture propagation and the proppant placement of the second fracture, and also the fracture conductivity of the first fracture; (4) the time-dependent stress shadow effects can be divided into four phases, fracture enlargement, closure without proppant contact, closure with proppant contact and full closure; and (5) the superposition effect of the stress shadow in a transverse multiple fracture system exists. According to the conclusions, some optimizations are recommended.
Q49|Design and Optimization of an Inductively Coupled Power Transfer System for the Underwater Sensors of Ocean Buoys|Batteries are commonly used as the power source of present underwater sensors of ocean buoys. However, batteries need to be frequently replaced, which is costly. To implement the real-time power supply for a buoy’s underwater sensor, a new inductively coupled power transfer (ICPT) system that consists of two couplers and a closed cable is proposed in this paper. The special closed cable, which is the both mooring cable and transmission media, is designed to diminish the influence of changes on impedance. A model of the particular ICPT system is established. Optimization of system parameters are carried out based on the model and verified by means of the simulations. Resonant compensation is used to improve the power transfer performance. Finally, many experiments are implemented to compare with the original prototype. It is confirmed that this system can help solve the difficulty of the energy limit to a buoy’s underwater sensor.
Q49|Integrated Equivalent Circuit and Thermal Model for Simulation of Temperature-Dependent LiFePO 4 Battery in Actual Embedded Application|A computational efficient battery pack model with thermal consideration is essential for simulation prototyping before real-time embedded implementation. The proposed model provides a coupled equivalent circuit and convective thermal model to determine the state-of-charge (SOC) and temperature of the LiFePO 4 battery working in a real environment. A cell balancing strategy applied to the proposed temperature-dependent battery model balanced the SOC of each cell to increase the lifespan of the battery. The simulation outputs are validated by a set of independent experimental data at a different temperature to ensure the model validity and reliability. The results show a root mean square (RMS) error of 1.5609 × 10 −5 for the terminal voltage and the comparison between the simulation and experiment at various temperatures (from 5 °C to 45 °C) shows a maximum RMS error of 7.2078 × 10 −5 .
Q49|New Approaches to Circulating Current Controllers for Modular Multilevel Converters|In the next years, modular multilevel converters (MMCs) are going to be a next generation multilevel converters for medium to high voltage conversion applications, such as medium voltage motor drives, medium voltage flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) and high voltage direct current transmission. They provide advantages such as high modularity, availability, low generation of harmonics, etc. However, the circulating current distorts the leg currents and increases the rated current of power devices, which further increases system cost. This paper focuses on analysis and suppression of these currents in a MMC using two algorithms for tracking of harmonics. For this work resonant controllers and repetitive controllers have been selected. Both controllers are analyzed and simulations results are presented. Moreover, the controllers have been tested and validated for a three phase MMC operating as an inverter using a real processing platform based on Zynq by Xilinx and designed to control large multilevel converters and in a real MMC prototype. These results are provided to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed method.
Q49|Modeling and Vulnerability Analysis of Cyber-Physical Power Systems Considering Network Topology and Power Flow Properties|Conventional power systems are developing into cyber-physical power systems (CPPS) with wide applications of communication, computer and control technologies. However, multiple practical cases show that the failure of cyber layers is a major factor leading to blackouts. Therefore, it is necessary to discuss the cascading failure process considering cyber layer failures and analyze the vulnerability of CPPS. In this paper, a CPPS model, which consists of cyber layer, physical layer and cyber-physical interface, is presented using complex network theory. Considering power flow properties, the impacts of cyber node failures on the cascading failure propagation process are studied. Moreover, two vulnerability indices are established from the perspective of both network structure and power flow properties. A vulnerability analysis method is proposed, and the CPPS performance before and after cascading failures is analyzed by the proposed method to calculate vulnerability indices. In the case study, three typical scenarios are analyzed to illustrate the method, and vulnerabilities under different interface strategies and attack strategies are compared. Two thresholds are proposed to value the CPPS vulnerability roughly. The results show that CPPS is more vulnerable under malicious attacks and cyber nodes with high indices are vulnerable points which should be reinforced.
Q49|An Analysis of Different Solar-Assisted Heating Systems and Their Effect on the Energy Performance of Multifamily Buildings—A Swedish Case|Today, the household sector in the European Union and in Sweden accounts for approximately 25% and 22% of the final energy demand, respectively, and the sector will continue to grow in the next decades. To limit the impact on the energy demand of buildings, the European Union has introduced the Energy Performance of Building Directive. In Sweden, a proposal for building regulations adapted to the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive has been released, but no decision on implementation of it has been made. In this article, a real building is simulated to evaluate how different combinations of heating and decentralized energy generation systems are affecting the specific energy demand of the building. Also, an analysis on how the Swedish incentive schemes affect the choice of decentralized energy generation systems is conducted. Furthermore, it is investigated if it is necessary to adopt the incentive schemes to steer towards systems that reduce the specific energy demand of the building. The conclusion in this article is that the current incentive system is ineffective in terms of specific energy demand reduction of buildings. It needs to be adapted so it steers towards a reduction of the specific energy demand of buildings.
Q49|Assessing the Feasibility of Global Long-Term Mitigation Scenarios|This study explores the critical notion of how feasible it is to achieve long-term mitigation goals to limit global temperature change. It uses a model inter-comparison of three integrated assessment models (TIAM-Grantham, MESSAGE-GLOBIOM and WITCH) harmonized for socio-economic growth drivers using one of the new shared socio-economic pathways (SSP2), to analyse multiple mitigation scenarios aimed at different temperature changes in 2100, in order to assess the model outputs against a range of indicators developed so as to systematically compare the feasibility across scenarios. These indicators include mitigation costs and carbon prices, rates of emissions reductions and energy efficiency improvements, rates of deployment of key low-carbon technologies, reliance on negative emissions, and stranding of power generation assets. The results highlight how much more challenging the 2 °C goal is, when compared to the 2.5–4 °C goals, across virtually all measures of feasibility. Any delay in mitigation or limitation in technology options also renders the 2 °C goal much less feasible across the economic and technical dimensions explored. Finally, a sensitivity analysis indicates that aiming for less than 2 °C is even less plausible, with significantly higher mitigation costs and faster carbon price increases, significantly faster decarbonization and zero-carbon technology deployment rates, earlier occurrence of very significant carbon capture and earlier onset of global net negative emissions. Such a systematic analysis allows a more in-depth consideration of what realistic level of long-term temperature changes can be achieved and what adaptation strategies are therefore required.
Q49|Structural Identifiability of Equivalent Circuit Models for Li-Ion Batteries|Structural identifiability is a critical aspect of modelling that has been overlooked in the vast majority of Li-ion battery modelling studies. It considers whether it is possible to obtain a unique solution for the unknown model parameters from experimental data. This is a fundamental prerequisite of the modelling process, especially when the parameters represent physical battery attributes and the proposed model is utilised to estimate them. Numerical estimates for unidentifiable parameters are effectively meaningless since unidentifiable parameters have an infinite number of possible numerical solutions. It is demonstrated that the physical phenomena assignment to a two-RC (resistor–capacitor) network equivalent circuit model (ECM) is not possible without additional information. Established methods to ascertain structural identifiability are applied to 12 ECMs covering the majority of model templates used previously. Seven ECMs are shown not to be uniquely identifiable, reducing the confidence in the accuracy of the parameter values obtained and highlighting the relevance of structural identifiability even for relatively simple models. Suggestions are proposed to make the models identifiable and, therefore, more valuable in battery management system applications. The detailed analyses illustrate the importance of structural identifiability prior to performing parameter estimation experiments, and the algebraic complications encountered even for simple models.
Q49|Equivalence of Primary Control Strategies for AC and DC Microgrids|Microgrid frequency and voltage regulation is a challenging task, as classical generators with rotational inertia are usually replaced by converter-interfaced systems that inherently do not provide any inertial response. The aim of this paper is to analyse and compare autonomous primary control techniques for alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) microgrids that improve this transient behaviour. In this context, a virtual synchronous machine (VSM) technique is investigated for AC microgrids, and its behaviour for different values of emulated inertia and droop slopes is tested. Regarding DC microgrids, a virtual-impedance-based algorithm inspired by the operation concept of VSMs is proposed. The results demonstrate that the proposed strategy can be configured to have an analogous behaviour to VSM techniques by varying the control parameters of the integrated virtual-impedances. This means that the steady-state and transient behaviour of converters employing these strategies can be configured independently. As shown in the simulations, this is an interesting feature that could be, for instance, employed for the integration of different dynamic generation or storage systems, such as batteries or supercapacitors.
Q49|A States of Matter Search-Based Approach for Solving the Problem of Intelligent Power Allocation in Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles|Recently, many researchers have proved that the electrification of the transport sector is a key for reducing both the emissions of green-house pollutants and the dependence on oil for transportation. As a result, Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (or PHEVs) are receiving never before seen increased attention. Consequently, large-scale penetration of PHEVs into the market is expected to take place in the near future, however, an unattended increase in the PHEVs needs may cause several technical problems which could potentially compromise the stability of power systems. As a result of the growing necessity for addressing such issues, topics related to the optimization of PHEVs’ charging infrastructures have captured the attention of many researchers. Related to this, several state-of-the-art swarm optimization methods (such as the well-known Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) or the recently proposed Gravitational Search Algorithm (GSA) approach) have been successfully applied in the optimization of the average State of Charge ( SoC ), which represents one of the most important performance indicators in the context of PHEVs’ intelligent power allocation. Many of these swarm optimization methods, however, are known to be subject to several critical flaws, including premature convergence and a lack of balance between the exploration and exploitation of solutions. Such problems are usually related to the evolutionary operators employed by each of the methods on the exploration and exploitation of new solutions. In this paper, the recently proposed States of Matter Search (SMS) swarm optimization method is proposed for maximizing the average State of Charge of PHEVs within a charging station. In our experiments, several different scenarios consisting on different numbers of PHEVs were considered. To test the feasibility of the proposed approach, comparative experiments were performed against other popular PHEVs’ State of Charge maximization approaches based on swarm optimization methods. The results obtained on our experimental setup show that the proposed SMS-based SoC maximization approach has an outstanding performance in comparison to that of the other compared methods, and as such, proves to be superior for tackling the challenging problem of PHEVs’ smart charging.
Q49|The Economy-Carbon Nexus in China: A Multi-Regional Input-Output Analysis of the Influence of Sectoral and Regional Development|China has become the world’s largest carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emitter. Sectoral production activities promote economic development while also adding considerably to national CO 2 emissions. Due to their different sectoral structures, each region shows different levels of economic development and CO 2 emissions. The Chinese government hopes to achieve the dual objectives of economic growth and CO 2 emissions reduction by encouraging those sectors that have high economic influence and low environmental influence. Based on the above background, this study constructed an inter-regional sectoral economic influence coefficient (REIC) and a CO 2 emissions influence coefficient (RCIC) based on the basic multi-regional input-output (MRIO) model to analyse the economy-carbon nexus of 17 sectors in 30 regions in China in 2010. The results showed that most Chinese sectors and regions had low CO 2 emissions influences in 2010. However, some sectors showed negative environmental influences. Specifically, the mining-related sectors showed high CO 2 emissions influence with low economic influence. It is encouraging that some light industry and high-end equipment manufacturing sectors had low CO 2 emissions influence with high economic influence. For regions, geographic location and past preferential policies are the most important factors influencing local economic growth and CO 2 emissions reduction. Most inland regions have low economic influence with high or low CO 2 emissions influence. Meanwhile, most coastal regions showed high economic influence with low CO 2 emissions influence. Finally, we propose some policy implications for sectors and regions.
Q49|Performance Evaluation of a Solar-Powered Regenerative Organic Rankine Cycle in Different Climate Conditions|A model to evaluate the performance of a solar powered regenerative Organic Rankine Cycle (R-ORC) using five dry organic fluids: RC318, R227ea, R236ea, R236fa, and R218, is presented in this paper. The system is evaluated in two locations in the U.S.: Jackson, MS and Tucson, AZ. The weather data for each location is used to determine the heat available from the solar collector that could be used by the R-ORC to generate power. Results from the R-ORC performance are compared with a basic ORC using first and second law criteria as well as primary energy consumption (PEC) and carbon dioxide emission (CDE) savings for both locations. An economic analysis to determine the maximum capital cost for a desired payback period is presented in this paper. A parametric analysis is also performed to study the effect of the turbine efficiency as well as the open feed organic fluid heater intermediate pressure on the system performance. Results indicate that the R-ORC is able to generate more power than the basic ORC for some of the selected working fluids. For the R-ORC, R236ea is the working fluid that show the best performance among the evaluated fluids under the modeled conditions. On the other hand, the basic ORC with R236ea as the working fluid outperformed three of the fluids in the R-ORC. Also, the R-ORC evaluated in Tucson, AZ is able to generate more power, to provide more PEC and CDE savings, and had a higher available capital cost than the R-ORC evaluated in in Jackson, MS.
Q49|Dynamic Exergy Analysis for the Thermal Storage Optimization of the Building Envelope|As a measure of energy “quality”, exergy is meaningful for comparing the potential for thermal storage. Systems containing the same amount of energy could have considerably different capabilities in matching a demand profile, and exergy measures this difference. Exergy stored in the envelope of buildings is central in sustainability because the environment could be an unlimited source of energy if its interaction with the envelope is optimised for maintaining the indoor conditions within comfort ranges. Since the occurring phenomena are highly fluctuating, a dynamic exergy analysis is required; however, dynamic exergy modelling is complex and has not hitherto been implemented in building simulation tools. Simplified energy and exergy assessments are presented for a case study in which thermal storage determines the performance of seven different wall types for utilising nocturnal ventilation as a passive cooling strategy. Hourly temperatures within the walls are obtained with the ESP-r software in free-floating operation and are used to assess the envelope exergy storage capacity. The results for the most suitable wall types were different between the exergy analysis and the more traditional energy performance indicators. The exergy method is an effective technique for selecting the construction type that results in the most favourable free-floating conditions through the analysed passive strategy.
Q49|Pressure Fluctuations in the S-Shaped Region of a Reversible Pump-Turbine|Numerical simulations were performed to investigate pressure fluctuations in the S-shaped region of a pump-turbine model. Analyses focused on pressure fluctuations in the draft tube and in the gap between the guide vanes and runner. Calculations were made under six different operating conditions with a constant guide vane opening, and the best efficiency point, runaway point, and low-discharge point in the turbine brake zone were determined. The simulated results were compared with experimental measurements. In the draft tube, a twin vortex rope was observed. In the gap between the guide vanes and runner, a low frequency component was captured at both the runaway and low-discharge points in the turbine brake zone, which rotated at 65% of the runner frequency. This low frequency component was induced by the rotating stall phenomenon. At the runaway point, a single stall cell was found in the gap between the guide vanes and runner, while at the low-discharge point, four stall cells were observed.
Q49|A Wavelet-Modified ESPRIT Hybrid Method for Assessment of Spectral Components from 0 to 150 kHz|Waveform distortions are an important issue in distribution systems. In particular, the assessment of very wide spectra, that include also components in the 2–150 kHz range, has recently become an issue of great interest. This is due to the increasing presence of high-spectral emission devices like end-user devices and distributed generation systems. This study proposed a new sliding-window wavelet-modified estimation of signal parameters by rotational invariance technique (ESPRIT) method, particularly suitable for the spectral analysis of waveforms that have very wide spectra. The method is very accurate and requires reduced computational effort. It can be applied successfully to detect spectral components in the range of 0–150 kHz introduced both by distributed power plants, such as wind and photovoltaic generation systems, and by end-user equipment connected to grids through static converters, such as fluorescent lamps.
Q49|Integration of Lithium-Ion Battery Storage Systems in Hydroelectric Plants for Supplying Primary Control Reserve|The ever-growing diffusion of renewables as electrical generation sources is forcing the electrical power system to face new and challenging regulation problems to preserve grid stability. Among these, the primary control reserve is reckoned to be one of the most important issues, since the introduction of generators based on renewable energies and interconnected through static converters, if relieved from the primary reserve contribution, reduces both the system inertia and the available power reserve in case of network events involving frequency perturbations. In this scenario, renewable plants such as hydroelectric run-of-river generators could be required to provide the primary control reserve ancillary service. In this paper, the integration between a multi-unit run-of-river power plant and a lithium-ion based battery storage system is investigated, suitably accounting for the ancillary service characteristics as required by present grid codes. The storage system is studied in terms of maximum economic profitability, taking into account its operating constraints. Dynamic simulations are carried out within the DIgSILENT PowerFactory 2016 software environment in order to analyse the plant response in case of network frequency contingencies, comparing the pure hydroelectric plant with the hybrid one, in which the primary reserve is partially or completely supplied by the storage system. Results confirm that the battery storage system response to frequency perturbations is clearly faster and more accurate during the transient phase compared to a traditional plant, since time delays due to hydraulic and mechanical regulations are overpassed. A case study, based on data from an existing hydropower plant and referring to the Italian context in terms of operational constraints and ancillary service remuneration, is presented.
Q49|Robustness Area Technique Developing Guidelines for Power System Restoration|This paper proposes a novel energy based technique called the Robustness Area (RA) technique that measures power system robustness levels, as a helper for planning Power System Restorations (PSRs). The motivation is on account of the latest blackouts in Brazil, where the local Independent System Operator (ISO) encountered difficulties related to circuit disconnections during the restoration. The technique identifies vulnerable and robust buses, pointing out system areas that should be firstly reinforced during PSR, in order to enhance system stability. A Brazilian power system restoration area is used to compare the guidelines adopted by the ISO with a more suitable new plan indicated by the RA tool. Active power and reactive power load margin and standing phase angle show the method efficiency as a result of a well balanced system configuration, enhancing the restoration performance. Time domain simulations for loop closures and severe events also show the positive impact that the proposed tool brings to PSRs.
Q49|Decentralized Electric Vehicle Charging Strategies for Reduced Load Variation and Guaranteed Charge Completion in Regional Distribution Grids|A novel, fully decentralized strategy to coordinate charge operation of electric vehicles is proposed in this paper. Based on stochastic switching control of on-board chargers, this strategy ensures high-efficiency charging, reduces load variations to the grid during charging periods, achieves charge completion with high probability, and accomplishes approximate “valley-filling”. Further improvements on the core strategy, including individualized power management, adaptive strategies, and battery support systems, are introduced to further reduce power fluctuation variances and to guarantee charge completion. Stochastic analysis is performed to establish the main properties of the strategies and to quantitatively show the performance improvements. Compared with the existing decentralized charging strategies, the strategies proposed in this paper can be implemented without any information exchange between grid operators and electric vehicles (EVs), resulting in a communications cost reduction. Additionally, it is shown that by using stochastic charging rules, a grid-supporting battery system with a very small energy capacity can achieve substantial reduction of EV load fluctuations with high confidence. An extensive set of simulations and case studies with real-world data are used to demonstrate the benefits of the proposed strategies.
Q49|Influence of Tip Clearance on Pressure Fluctuation in Low Specific Speed Mixed-Flow Pump Passage|To explore the influence of tip clearance on pressure fluctuation in a low specific speed mixed-flow pump, tip clearances δ of 0.25 mm, 0.75 mm and 1.00 mm, along with no tip clearance, were selected. The reliability of the simulation was verified by comparison with the experimental data of external characteristics and fluctuation in the guide vane passage. Through ANSYS-CFX, MATLAB code and fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm, pressure fluctuation characteristics in this pump were obtained. The results show that pressure fluctuation exists in all conditions due to the rotor-stator interaction. Under the no tip clearance and tip clearance conditions, the maximum fluctuation value was located near the guide inlet and impeller outlet, respectively. Clearance leakage had less influence on pressure fluctuation at the impeller inlet and central regions within a certain range of the clearance; beyond this range, fluctuations in the whole flow passage increased significantly, while the clearance variation had less effect on fluctuation in the guide vane. When the tip clearance value was 1.00 mm, pressure fluctuation of the shroud at the impeller inlet section suddenly increases, which was closely related to the obvious leakage vortexes and a larger low pressure area.
Q49|Fault Tolerant and Optimal Control of Wind Turbines with Distributed High-Speed Generators|In this paper, the control scheme of a distributed high-speed generator system with a total amount of 12 generators and nominal generator speed of 7000 min − 1 is studied. Specifically, a fault tolerant control (FTC) scheme is proposed to keep the turbine in operation in the presence of up to four simultaneous generator faults. The proposed controller structure consists of two layers: The upper layer is the baseline controller, which is separated into a partial load region with the generator torque as an actuating signal and the full-load operation region with the collective pitch angle as the other actuating signal. In addition, the lower layer is responsible for the fault diagnosis and FTC characteristics of the distributed generator drive train. The fault reconstruction and fault tolerant control strategy are tested in simulations with several actuator faults of different types.
Q49|Application of Meta-Heuristic Techniques for Optimal Load Shedding in Islanded Distribution Network with High Penetration of Solar PV Generation|Recently, several environmental problems are beginning to affect all aspects of life. For this reason, many governments and international agencies have expressed great interest in using more renewable energy sources (RESs). However, integrating more RESs with distribution networks resulted in several critical problems vis-à-vis the frequency stability, which might lead to a complete blackout if not properly treated. Therefore, this paper proposed a new Under Frequency Load Shedding (UFLS) scheme for islanding distribution network. This scheme uses three meta-heuristics techniques, binary evolutionary programming (BEP), Binary genetic algorithm (BGA), and Binary particle swarm optimization (BPSO), to determine the optimal combination of loads that needs to be shed from the islanded distribution network. Compared with existing UFLS schemes using fixed priority loads, the proposed scheme has the ability to restore the network frequency without any overshooting. Furthermore, in terms of execution time, the simulation results show that the BEP technique is fast enough to shed the optimal combination of loads compared with BGA and BPSO techniques.
Q49|Implementation and Assessment of a Decentralized Load Frequency Control: Application to Power Systems with High Wind Energy Penetration|This paper describes and assesses a decentralized solution based on a wireless sensor-actuator network to provide primary frequency control from demand response in power systems with high wind energy penetration and, subsequently, with relevant frequency excursions. The proposed system is able to modify the electrical power demand of a variety of thermostatically-controlled loads, maintaining minimum comfort levels and minimizing both infrastructure requirements and primary reserves from the supply side. This low-cost hardware solution avoids any additional wiring, extending the wireless sensor-actuator network technology towards small customers, which account for over a 30% share of the current power demand. Frequency excursions are collected by each individual load controller, considering not only the magnitude of the frequency deviation, but also their evolution over time. Based on these time-frequency excursion characteristics, controllers are capable of modifying the power consumption of thermostatically-controlled loads by switching them off and on, thus contributing to primary frequency control in power systems with higher generation unit oscillations as a consequence of relevant wind power integration. Field tests have been carried out in a laboratory environment to assess the load controller performance, as well as to evaluate the electrical and thermal response of individual loads under frequency deviations. These frequency deviations are estimated from power systems with a high penetration of wind energy, which are more sensitive to frequency oscillations and where demand response can significantly contribute to mitigate these frequency excursions. The results, also included in the paper, evaluate the suitability of the proposed load controllers and their suitability to decrease frequency excursions from the demand side in a decentralized manner.
Q49|Phase Change Material Based Accumulation Panels in Combination with Renewable Energy Sources and Thermoelectric Cooling|The article deals with the use of modern materials and technologies that can improve the thermal comfort in buildings. The article describes the design and usage of a special accumulation device, which is composed of thermal panels based on phase change materials (PCMs). The thermal panels have an integrated tube heat exchanger and heating foils. The technology can be used as a passive or active system for heating and cooling. It is designed as a “green technology”, so it is able to use renewable energy sources, e.g., photovoltaic (PV) panels, solar thermal collectors and heat pumps. Moreover, an interesting possibility is the ability to use thermoelectric coolers. In the research, measurements of the different operating modes were made, and the results are presented in the text. The measurement approves that the technology improves the thermal capacity of the building, and it is possible to use it for active heating and cooling.
Q49|Technology and Reliability of Normally-Off GaN HEMTs with p-Type Gate|GaN-based transistors with p-GaN gate are commonly accepted as promising devices for application in power converters, thanks to the positive and stable threshold voltage, the low on-resistance and the high breakdown field. This paper reviews the most recent results on the technology and reliability of these devices by presenting original data. The first part of the paper describes the technological issues related to the development of a p-GaN gate, and the most promising solutions for minimizing the gate leakage current. In the second part of the paper, we describe the most relevant mechanisms that limit the dynamic performance and the reliability of GaN-based normally-off transistors. More specifically, we discuss the following aspects: (i) the trapping effects specific for the p-GaN gate; (ii) the time-dependent breakdown of the p-GaN gate during positive gate stress and the related physics of failure; (iii) the stability of the electrical parameters during operation at high drain voltages. The results presented within this paper provide information on the current status of the performance and reliability of GaN-based E-mode transistors, and on the related technological issues.
Q49|A System Dynamics Analysis of Investment, Technology and Policy that Affect Natural Gas Exploration and Exploitation in China|Natural gas has an increasing role in Chinese energy transformation. We present a system dynamics model of the natural gas industry in China. A new system dynamics model for natural gas companies based on reserve exploration and well construction as well as investment dynamics is proposed. The contribution of the paper is to analyze the influence of technology, investment and policy factors on the natural gas industry. We found that the dynamics of the main variables, including gas policy, cost of investment, accounting depreciation and exploitation technology, are sensitive to the sustainable development of resources. The simulations and results presented here will be helpful for government to reform policies, and for upstream companies to make decisions.
Q49|A Methodological Approach to Assess the Impact of Smarting Action on Electricity Transmission and Distribution Networks Related to Europe 2020 Targets|The achievement of the so-called 2020 targets requested by the European Union (EU) has determined a significant growth of proposals of solutions and of technical projects aiming at reducing the CO 2 emissions and increasing the energy efficiency, as well as the penetration of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) in the electric network. As many of them ask for funding from the EU itself, there is the necessity to define a methodology to rank them and decide which projects should be sponsored to obtain the maximum effect on the EU 2020 targets. The present paper aims at (i) defining a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to compare different proposals, (ii) proposing an analytical methodology to evaluate the defined KPIs and (iii) evaluating the maximum impact that the considered action is capable of producing. The proposed methodology is applied to a set of possible interventions performed on a benchmark transmission network test case, in order to show that the defined indicators can be either calculated or measured and that they are useful to rank different “smarting actions”.
Q49|Impact of Distributed Generation Grid Code Requirements on Islanding Detection in LV Networks|The recent growing diffusion of dispersed generation in low voltage (LV) distribution networks is entailing new rules to make local generators participate in network stability. Consequently, national and international grid codes, which define the connection rules for stability and safety of electrical power systems, have been updated requiring distributed generators and electrical storage systems to supply stabilizing contributions. In this scenario, specific attention to the uncontrolled islanding issue has to be addressed since currently required anti-islanding protection systems, based on relays locally measuring voltage and frequency, could no longer be suitable. In this paper, the effects on the interface protection performance of different LV generators’ stabilizing functions are analysed. The study takes into account existing requirements, such as the generators’ active power regulation (according to the measured frequency) and reactive power regulation (depending on the local measured voltage). In addition, the paper focuses on other stabilizing features under discussion, derived from the medium voltage (MV) distribution network grid codes or proposed in the literature, such as fast voltage support (FVS) and inertia emulation. Stabilizing functions have been reproduced in the DIgSILENT PowerFactory 2016 software environment, making use of its native programming language. Later, they are tested both alone and together, aiming to obtain a comprehensive analysis on their impact on the anti-islanding protection effectiveness. Through dynamic simulations in several network scenarios the paper demonstrates the detrimental impact that such stabilizing regulations may have on loss-of-main protection effectiveness, leading to an increased risk of unintentional islanding.
Q49|Improvement of Wind Energy Production through HVDC Systems|Variable and non-programmable resources, such as solar and wind, have undergone a stunning growth in recent years and are likely to gain even more importance in the future. Their strong presence in the national electricity mix has created issues in many countries regarding the secure operation of the power system. In order to guarantee the stability of the system, several TSOs have resorted to wind energy curtailment, which represents a waste of clean energy and an economic loss. In order to analyze this issue, a model of the Italian power system was developed, a program able to simulate the electricity dispatching mechanism. The model was, then, used to evaluate possible solutions to reduce wind curtailment. In particular, a proposal for the construction of an HVDC line linking Southern and Northern Italy was studied.
Q49|The Impact of Shale Gas on the Cost and Feasibility of Meeting Climate Targets—A Global Energy System Model Analysis and an Exploration of Uncertainties|There exists considerable uncertainty over both shale and conventional gas resource availability and extraction costs, as well as the fugitive methane emissions associated with shale gas extraction and its possible role in mitigating climate change. This study uses a multi-region energy system model, TIAM (TIMES integrated assessment model), to consider the impact of a range of conventional and shale gas cost and availability assessments on mitigation scenarios aimed at achieving a limit to global warming of below 2 °C in 2100, with a 50% likelihood. When adding shale gas to the global energy mix, the reduction to the global energy system cost is relatively small (up to 0.4%), and the mitigation cost increases by 1%–3% under all cost assumptions. The impact of a “dash for shale gas”, of unavailability of carbon capture and storage, of increased barriers to investment in low carbon technologies, and of higher than expected leakage rates, are also considered; and are each found to have the potential to increase the cost and reduce feasibility of meeting global temperature goals. We conclude that the extraction of shale gas is not likely to significantly reduce the effort required to mitigate climate change under globally coordinated action, but could increase required mitigation effort if not handled sufficiently carefully.
Q49|Effect of the Dendrimer Generation Used in the Synthesis of Pt-Ru Nanoparticles Supported on Carbon Nanofibers on the Catalytic Activity towards Methanol Oxidation|Pt-Ru nanoparticles supported on carbon nanofibers (CNF) were synthesized by the sodium borohydride reduction method, using different generation dendrimers (zero, one, two and three generations). After the synthesis process, these materials were submitted to a heat treatment at 350 °C, in order to clean the nanoparticle surface of organic residues. TEM characterization showed that the Pt-Ru nanoparticles size ranged between 1.9 and 5.5 nm. The use of dendrimers did not totally avoid the formation of aggregates, although monodisperse sizes were observed. The heat treatment produces the desired surface cleaning, although promoted the formation of agglomerates and crystalline Ru oxides. The study of the electrochemical activity towards the methanol oxidation displayed some clues about the influence of both the dendrimer generation and the presence of Ru oxides. Moreover, the apparent activation energy E ap for this reaction was determined. The results showed a beneficial effect of the heat treatment on the methanol oxidation current densities for the materials synthesized with the biggest dendrimers, being the methanol deprotonation and CO ad diffusion the predominant rate determining steps ( rds ).
Q49|Forecasting Models of Electricity Prices|This book contains the successful invited submissions [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11] to a Special Issue of Energies on the subject area of “Forecasting Models of Electricity Prices”.
Q49|Numerical Investigation of the Production Behavior of Methane Hydrates under Depressurization Conditions Combined with Well-Wall Heating|In this study, a 2D hydrate dissociation simulator has been improved and veriﬁed to be valid in numerical simulations of the gas production behavior using depressurization combined with a well-wall heating method. A series of numerical simulations were performed and the results showed that well-wall heating had an inﬂuence enhancing the depressurization-induced gas production, but the inﬂuence was limited, and it was even gradually weakened with the increase of well-wall heating temperature. Meanwhile, the results of the sensitivity analysis demonstrated the gas production depended on the initial hydrate saturation, initial pressure and the thermal boundary conditions. The supply of heat for hydrate dissociation mainly originates from the thermal boundaries,whichcontrolthehydratedissociationandgasproductionbydepressurizationcombined with well-wall heating. However, the effect of initial temperature on the gas production could be nearly negligible under depressurization conditions combined with well-wall heating.
Q49|MACsec Layer 2 Security in HSR Rings in Substation Automation Systems|The smart-grid concept takes the communications from the enclosed and protected environment of a substation to the wider city or nationwide area. In this environment, cyber security takes a key role in order to secure the communications. The challenge is to be able to secure the grid without impacting the latency while, at the same time, maintaining compatibility with older devices and non secure services. At the lower level, added security must not interfere with the redundancy and the latency required for the real-time substation automation communications. This paper studies how to integrate IEEE MAC Security standard (MACsec) in the substation environment, especially when used in substation system communications
Q49|Parallel Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm for Short-Term Economic Environmental Hydrothermal Scheduling|With the increasingly serious energy crisis and environmental pollution, the short-term economic environmental hydrothermal scheduling (SEEHTS) problem is becoming more and more important in modern electrical power systems. In order to handle the SEEHTS problem efficiently, the parallel multi-objective genetic algorithm (PMOGA) is proposed in the paper. Based on the Fork/Join parallel framework, PMOGA divides the whole population of individuals into several subpopulations which will evolve in different cores simultaneously. In this way, PMOGA can avoid the wastage of computational resources and increase the population diversity. Moreover, the constraint handling technique is used to handle the complex constraints in SEEHTS, and a selection strategy based on constraint violation is also employed to ensure the convergence speed and solution feasibility. The results from a hydrothermal system in different cases indicate that PMOGA can make the utmost of system resources to significantly improve the computing efficiency and solution quality. Moreover, PMOGA has competitive performance in SEEHTS when compared with several other methods reported in the previous literature, providing a new approach for the operation of hydrothermal systems.
Q49|Performance and Stability Enhancement of Perovskite-Type Nanomaterials Applied for Carbon Capture Utilizing Oxyfuel Combustion|A new series of Ba-Co-Operovskite-type oxygen carriers has been successfully synthesized by the microwave-assisted sol-gel method and further applied for producing an O2/CO2 mixture gas. The oxygen adsorption/desorption performance of synthesized samples was studied in a ﬁxed-bed reactor system. Effects of A/B-site substitution on the oxygen desorption performance of Ba-Co-O–based perovskites are also included. Furthermore, the effects of operating conditions including the adsorption time and temperature as well as the desorption temperature on oxygen production performance were investigated in detail. The results indicated that BaCoO3-δ exhibited an excellent oxygen desorption performance among the synthesized A/B-site–substituted ACoO3-δ and BaBO3-δ samples, and that the optimal adsorption time, adsorption temperature and desorption temperatureforBaCoO3-δ were determined to be 20min, 850◦Cand850◦C, respectively, in this study.
Q49|Exergy Analysis of Solid Fuel-Fired Heat and Power Plants: A Review|The growing demand for energy is particularly important to engineers with respect to how the energy produced by heat and power plants can be used efﬁciently. Formerly, performance evaluation of thermal power plants was done through energy analysis. However, the energy method does not account for irreversibilities within the system. An effective method to measure and improve efﬁciency of thermal power plant is exergy analysis. Exergy analysis is used to evaluate the performance of a system and its main advantage is enhancement of the energy conversion process. It helps identify the main points of exergy destruction, the quantity and causes of this destruction, as well as show which areas in the system and components have potential for improvements. The current study is a comprehensive review of exergy analyses applied in the solid fuels heat and power sector, which includes coal, biomass and a combination of these feedstocks as fuels. The methods for the evaluation of the exergy efﬁciency and the exergy destruction are surveyed in each part of the plant. The current review is expected to advance understanding of exergy analysis and its usefulness in the energy and power sectors: it will assist in the performance assessment, analysis, optimization and cost effectiveness of the design of heat and power plant systems in these sectors.
Q49|Voltage-Sensorless Control Scheme for a Grid Connected Inverter Using Disturbance Observer|A grid connected inverter usually requires voltage and current measurements to control the active and reactive powers as well as the inverter output currents. While voltage sensors are essential to obtain reliable information on the phase angle, these additional components certainly increase the production costs and complexity. In this paper, a voltage-sensorless control scheme for a grid connected inverter using a disturbance observer (DOB) is presented. The grid voltages are estimated by DOB in the stationary reference frame using the current measurements and reference signals. Even though the DOB estimates the grid voltages with reasonable accuracy in the presence of the uncertainty such as the unbalanced condition and harmonic distortion, the resultant waveform shows a phase lag depending on the estimation bandwidth. To overcome this limitation, a phase lead compensation is introduced. By using these techniques, the phase angle of grid voltages can be completely restored even if the phase angle of grid is initially unknown. The proposed scheme is simple and straightforward. In addition, it does not require any additional hardware. The feasibility of the proposed voltage-sensorless control scheme is demonstrated through simulations and experiments using 2 kVA prototype inverter.
Q49|Adaptive Torque Estimation for an IPMSM with Cross-Coupling and Parameter Variations|This paper presents a new adaptive torque estimation algorithm for an interior permanent magnet synchronous motor (IPMSM) with parameter variations and cross-coupling between d- and q-axis dynamics. All cross-coupled, time-varying, or uncertain terms that are not part of the nominal flux equations are included in two equivalent mutual inductances, which are described using the equivalent d- and q-axis back electromotive forces (EMFs). The proposed algorithm estimates the equivalent d- and q-axis back EMFs in a recursive and stability-guaranteed manner, in order to compute the equivalent mutual inductances between the d- and q-axes. Then, it provides a more accurate and adaptive torque equation by adding the correction terms obtained from the computed equivalent mutual inductances. Simulations and experiments demonstrate that torque estimation errors are remarkably reduced by capturing and compensating for the inherent cross-coupling effects and parameter variations adaptively, using the proposed algorithm.
Q49|An N - k Analytic Method of Composite Generation and Transmission with Interval Load|N - k contingency estimation plays a very important role in the operation and expansion planning of power systems, the method of which is traditionally based on heuristic screening. This paper stringently analyzes the best and worst states of power systems given the uncertainties of N - k contingency and interval load. For the sake of simplification and tractable computation, an approximate direct current (DC) power flow model was used. Rigorous optimization models were established for identifying the worst and best scenarios considering the contingencies of generators and transmission lines together with their uncertain loads. It is very useful to identify the worst N - k contingencies with interval loads. If the worst existing scenario meets security standards, all scenarios must satisfy it. The mathematical model established for finding the worst N - k contingency with interval load is a bi-level optimization model. In this paper, strong duality theory and mathematical linearization were applied to the solution of bi-level optimization. The computational results of standard cases validate the effectiveness of the proposed method and illustrate that generator contingency has more impact on minimum load shedding than transmission line contingency.
Q49|Multi-Agent-Based Controller for Voltage Enhancement in AC/DC Hybrid Microgrid Using Energy Storages|Development of renewable energies and DC loads have led microgrids toward the creation of DC networks. The predictions show that the hybrid microgrids will be used widely in the future. This article has studied the voltage stability in the presence of sources of energy storage in AC/DC hybrid networks. However, because the different dynamics of hybrid networks applying centralized and distributed controllers will be faced with different problems, in this study, a multi-agent control for the microgrid has been used. A new structure referred to here as an event-driven microgrid control management (EDMCM) has been developed to control the microgrid. This method increases response speed and accuracy of decision making. Hybrid Network Simulation results confirm the validity of the developed model.
Q49|Development of Propulsion Inverter Control System for High-Speed Maglev based on Long Stator Linear Synchronous Motor|In the case of a long-stator linear drive, unlike rotative drives for which speed or position sensors are a single unit attached to the shaft, these sensors extend along the guideway. The position signals transmitted from a maglev vehicle cannot meet the need of the real-time propulsion control in the on-ground inverter power substations. In this paper the design of the propulsion inverter control system with a position estimator for driving a long-stator synchronous motor in a high-speed maglev train is proposed. The experiments have been carried out at the 150 m long guideway at the O-song test track. To investigate the performance of the position estimator, the propulsion control system with, and without, the position estimator are compared. The result confirms that the proposed strategy can meet the dynamic property needs of the propulsion inverter control system for driving long-stator linear synchronous motors.
Q49|Contribution Determination for Multiple Unbalanced Sources at the Point of Common Coupling|Three-phase unbalance is an important power quality issue that can cause many negative effects to the power system. Effective mitigation and management of voltage unbalance will benefit from the knowledge of how the unbalanced sources contribute to the voltage asymmetry at the point of evaluation (POE). In this paper, a method is proposed to assess the overall unbalance contribution of the multiple unbalanced sources at the point of common coupling (PCC). Firstly, the equivalent circuit for analysis is established and the unbalance contribution indices are proposed. Then a method is proposed to determine whether the dominant unbalanced polluter is at the upstream or downstream of POE. If the main unbalanced source is identified to be downstream of POE, a procedure is further proposed to determine the individual contribution of the multiple unbalanced sources. Moreover, for the multiple unbalanced source condition, the current flowing in each feeder is proposed to be used for the contribution estimation instead of the current actually emitted by the unbalanced source. Finally, a method is proposed to estimate the equivalent negative sequence impedance of the aggregate loads. Simulation and field analysis results validate the effectiveness and accuracy of the method.
Q49|Development of Middleware Applied to Microgrids by Means of an Open Source Enterprise Service Bus|The success of the smart grid relies heavily on the integration of Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) and interoperability among the hardware elements that are present as part of either the smart grid itself or in a smaller size deployment, such as a microgrid. Therefore, establishing an accurate design for software architectures that guarantee interoperability and are able to abstract hardware heterogeneity in this application domain, along with a clearly defined procedure on how to implement and test a solution like this, becomes a desirable objective. This paper describes the requirements needed to design a secure, decentralized and semantic middleware architecture for microgrids and the procedures used to develop it, so that the mandatory software components that have to be encased by the solution, as well as the steps that should be followed to make it happen, become clear for any designer, software architect or programmer that has to tackle similar challenges. In order to demonstrate the usability of the ideas put forward here, two successful pilots where middleware solutions were created according to these principles have been described.
Q49|Parameter Identification with the Random Perturbation Particle Swarm Optimization Method and Sensitivity Analysis of an Advanced Pressurized Water Reactor Nuclear Power Plant Model for Power Systems|The ability to obtain appropriate parameters for an advanced pressurized water reactor (PWR) unit model is of great significance for power system analysis. The attributes of that ability include the following: nonlinear relationships, long transition time, intercoupled parameters and difficult obtainment from practical test, posed complexity and difficult parameter identification. In this paper, a model and a parameter identification method for the PWR primary loop system were investigated. A parameter identification process was proposed, using a particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm that is based on random perturbation (RP-PSO). The identification process included model variable initialization based on the differential equations of each sub-module and program setting method, parameter obtainment through sub-module identification in the Matlab/Simulink Software (Math Works Inc., Natick, MA, USA) as well as adaptation analysis for an integrated model. A lot of parameter identification work was carried out, the results of which verified the effectiveness of the method. It was found that the change of some parameters, like the fuel temperature and coolant temperature feedback coefficients, changed the model gain, of which the trajectory sensitivities were not zero. Thus, obtaining their appropriate values had significant effects on the simulation results. The trajectory sensitivities of some parameters in the core neutron dynamic module were interrelated, causing the parameters to be difficult to identify. The model parameter sensitivity could be different, which would be influenced by the model input conditions, reflecting the parameter identifiability difficulty degree for various input conditions.
Q49|A Novel WPT System Based on Dual Transmitters and Dual Receivers for High Power Applications: Analysis, Design and Implementation|Traditional Wireless Power Transfer (WPT) systems only have one energy transmission path, which can hardly meet the power demand for high power applications, e.g., railway applications (electric trains and trams, etc.) due to the capacity constraints of power electronic devices. A novel WPT system based on dual transmitters and dual receivers is proposed in this paper to upgrade the power capacity of the WPT system. The reliability and availability of the proposed WPT system can be dramatically improved due to the four energy transmission paths. A three-dimensional finite element analysis (FEA) tool ANSYS MAXWELL (ANSYS, Canonsburg, PA, USA) is adopted to investigate the proposed magnetic coupling structure. Besides, the effects of the crossing coupling mutual inductances among the transmitters and receivers are analyzed. It shows that the same-side cross couplings will decrease the efficiency and transmitted power. Decoupling transformers are employed to mitigate the effects of the same-side cross couplings. Meanwhile, the output voltage in the secondary side can be regulated at its designed value with a fast response performance, and the system can continue work even with a faulty inverter. Finally, a scale-down experimental setup is provided to verify the proposed approach. The experimental results indicate that the proposed method could improve the transmitted power capacity, overall efficiency and reliability, simultaneously. The proposed WPT structure is a potential alternative for high power applications.
Q49|An Artificial Neural Network for Analyzing Overall Uniformity in Outdoor Lighting Systems|Street lighting installations are an essential service for modern life due to their capability of creating a welcoming feeling at nighttime. Nevertheless, several studies have highlighted that it is possible to improve the quality of the light significantly improving the uniformity of the illuminance. The main difficulty arises when trying to improve some of the installation’s characteristics based only on statistical analysis of the light distribution. This paper presents a new algorithm that is able to obtain the overall illuminance uniformity in order to improve this sort of installations. To develop this algorithm it was necessary to perform a detailed study of all the elements which are part of street lighting installations. Because classification is one of the most important tasks in the application areas of artificial neural networks, we compared the performances of six types of training algorithms in a feed forward neural network for analyzing the overall uniformity in outdoor lighting systems. We found that the best algorithm that minimizes the error is “Levenberg-Marquardt back-propagation”, which approximates the desired output of the training pattern. By means of this kind of algorithm, it is possible to help to lighting professionals optimize the quality of street lighting installations.
Q49|An Estimate of the Uncertainty in the Grounding Resistance of Electrodes Buried in Two-Layered Soils with Non-Flat Surface|The influence of the irregular surface of a multi-layered soil on the estimation of the ground resistance of a complex electrode is studied. The electrode is placed in the first layer while the irregular surface is treated as the interface of an inhomogeneous volume filled with air and embedded in the first layer. A wide sample of irregular soils is generated and the variation of the electrode grounding resistance, as a function of a parameter that measures the surface unevenness, is evaluated. A stochastic model of the grounding resistance is proposed for which the variation of the electrode grounding resistance with its horizontal position relative to the surface is studied. The model features allow us to explain the variability found, as we are able to estimate the part of the uncertainty about the electrode grounding resistance measurements due to the non-planar soil surface.
Q49|Mode Shift Control for a Hybrid Heavy-Duty Vehicle with Power-Split Transmission|Given that power-split transmission (PST) is considered to be a major powertrain technology for hybrid heavy-duty vehicles (HDVs), the development and application of PST in the HDVs make mode shift control an essential aspect of powertrain system design. This paper presents a shift schedule design and torque control strategy for a hybrid HDV with PST during mode shift, intended to reduce the output torque variation and improve the shift quality (SQ). Firstly, detailed dynamic models of the hybrid HDV are developed to analyze the mode shift characteristics. Then, a gear shift schedule calculation method including a dynamic shift schedule and an economic shift schedule is provided. Based on the dynamic models and the designed shift schedule, a mode shift performance simulator is built using MATLAB/Simulink, and simulations are carried out. Through analysis of the dynamic equations, it is seen that the inertia torques of the motor–generator lead to the occurrence of transition torque. To avoid the unwanted transition torque, we use a mode shift control strategy that coordinates the motor–generator torque to compensate for the transition torque. The simulation and experimental results demonstrate that the output torque variation during mode shift is effectively reduced by the proposed control strategy, thereby improving the SQ.
Q49|Surface Assisted Combustion of Hydrogen-Oxygen Mixture in Nanobubbles Produced by Electrolysis|The spontaneous combustion of hydrogen–oxygen mixture observed in nanobubbles at room temperature is a puzzling phenomenon that has no explanation in the standard combustion theory. We suggest that the hydrogen atoms needed to ignite the reaction could be generated on charged sites at the gas–liquid interface. Equations of chemical kinetics augmented by the surface dissociation of hydrogen molecules are solved, keeping the dissociation probability as a parameter. It is predicted that in contrast with the standard combustion, the surface-assisted process can proceed at room temperature, resulting not only in water, but also in a perceptible amount of hydrogen peroxide in the final state. The combustion time for the nanobubbles with a size of about 100 nm is in the range of 1–100 ns, depending on the dissociation probability.
Q49|Comparing Non-Steady State Emissions under Start-Up and Shut-Down Operating Conditions with Steady State Emissions for Several Industrial Sectors: A Literature Review|This study investigates the emissions of various industrial facilities under start-up, shut-down, and normal operations. The industries that have been investigated include power and/or heat generation, energy-from-waste generation, nuclear power generation, sulphuric acid production, ethylene production, petrochemical production, and waste incineration. The study investigated multiple facilities worldwide for each of these industrial categories. The different potential contaminants characteristic of each industry type have been investigated and the emissions of these contaminants under non-steady state have been compared to the steady state emissions. Where available, trends have been developed to identify the circumstances, i.e., the industrial sector and contaminant, under which the assessment and consideration of emissions from start-up and shut-down events is necessary for each industry. These trends differ by industrial sector and contaminant. For example, the study shows that sulphur dioxide (SO 2 ) emissions should be assessed for the start-up operations of sulphuric acid production plants, but may not need to be assessed for the start-up operations of a conventional power generation facility. The trends developed as part of this research paper will help air permit applicants to effectively allocate their resources when assessing emissions related to non-steady state operations. Additionally, it will ensure that emissions are assessed for the worst-case scenario. This is especially important when emissions under start-up and shut-down operations have the potential to exceed enforceable emission limits. Thus, assessing emissions for the worst-case scenario can help in preventing the emissions from adversely impacting public health and the environment.
Q49|Risk-Based Probabilistic Voltage Stability Assessment in Uncertain Power System|The risk-based assessment is a new approach to the voltage stability assessment in power systems. Under several uncertainties, the security risk of static voltage stability with the consideration of wind power can be evaluated. In this paper, we first build a probabilistic forecast model for wind power generation based on real historical data. Furthermore, we propose a new probability voltage stability approach based on Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR) and Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) simulation. The QMC simulation is used to speed up Monte Carlo (MC) simulation by improving the sampling technique. Our CVaR-based model reveals critical characteristics of static voltage stability. The distribution of the local voltage stability margin, which considers the security risk at a forecast operating time interval, is estimated to evaluate the probability voltage stability. Tested on the modified IEEE New England 39-bus system and the IEEE 118-bus system, results from the proposal are compared against the result of the conventional proposal. The effectiveness and advantages of the proposed method are demonstrated by the test results.
Q49|Interpolating and Estimating Horizontal Diffuse Solar Irradiation to Provide UK-Wide Coverage: Selection of the Best Performing Models|Plane-of-array (PoA) irradiation data is a requirement to simulate the energetic performance of photovoltaic devices (PVs). Normally, solar data is only available as global horizontal irradiation, for a limited number of locations, and typically in hourly time resolution. One approach to handling this restricted data is to enhance it initially by interpolation to the location of interest; next, it must be translated to PoA data by separately considering the diffuse and the beam components. There are many methods of interpolation. This research selects ordinary kriging as the best performing technique by studying mathematical properties, experimentation and leave-one-out-cross validation. Likewise, a number of different translation models has been developed, most of them parameterised for specific measurement setups and locations. The work presented identifies the optimum approach for the UK on a national scale. The global horizontal irradiation will be split into its constituent parts. Divers separation models were tried. The results of each separation algorithm were checked against measured data distributed across the UK. It became apparent that while there is little difference between procedures (14 Wh/m 2 mean bias error ( MBE ), 12 Wh/m 2 root mean square error ( RMSE )), the Ridley, Boland, Lauret equation (a universal split algorithm) consistently performed well. The combined interpolation/separation RMSE is 86 Wh/m 2 ).
Q49|How Do Dietary Choices Influence the Energy-System Cost of Stabilizing the Climate?|We investigate how different global dietary scenarios affect the constraints on, and costs of, transforming the energy system to reach a global temperature stabilization limit of 2 °C above the pre-industrial level. A global food and agriculture model, World Food Supply Model (WOFSUM), is used to create three dietary scenarios and to calculate the CH 4 and N 2 O emissions resulting from their respective food-supply chains. The diets are: (i) a reference diet based on current trends; (ii) a diet with high (reference-level) meat consumption, but without ruminant products (i.e., no beef, lamb, or dairy, only pork and poultry); and (iii) a vegan diet. The estimated CH 4 and N 2 O emissions from food production are fed into a coupled energy and climate-system optimization model to quantify the energy system implications of the different dietary scenarios, given a 2 °C target. The results indicate that a phase-out of ruminant products substantially increases the emission space for CO 2 by about 250 GtC which reduces the necessary pace of the energy system transition and cuts the net present value energy-system mitigation costs by 25%, for staying below 2 °C. Importantly, the additional cost savings with a vegan diet––beyond those achieved with a phase-out of ruminant products––are marginal (only one additional percentage point). This means that a general reduction of meat consumption is a far less effective strategy for meeting the 2 °C target than a reduction of beef and dairy consumption.
Q49|Discrete Fracture Network Modelling in a Naturally Fractured Carbonate Reservoir in the Jingbei Oilfield, China|This paper presents an integrated approach of discrete fracture network modelling for a naturally fractured buried-hill carbonate reservoir in the Jingbei Oilfield by using a 3D seismic survey, conventional well logs, and core data. The ant tracking attribute, extracted from 3D seismic data, is used to detect the faults and large-scale fractures. Fracture density and dip angle are evaluated by observing drilling cores of seven wells. The fracture density distribution in spatiality was predicted in four steps; firstly, the ant tracking attribute was extracted as a geophysical log; then an artificial neural network model was built by relating the fracture density with logs, e.g., acoustic, gamma ray, compensated neutron, density, and ant tracking; then 3D distribution models of acoustic, gamma ray, compensated neutron and density were generated by using a Gaussian random function simulation; and, finally, the fracture density distribution in 3D was predicted by using the generated artificial neural network model. Then, different methods were used to build the discrete fracture network model for different types of fractures of which large-scale fractures were modelled deterministically and small-scale fractures were modelled stochastically. The results show that the workflow presented in this study is effective for building discrete fracture network models for naturally fractured reservoirs.
Q49|Investigating How an Artificial Neural Network Model Can Be Used to Detect Added Mass on a Non-Rotating Beam Using Its Natural Frequencies: A Possible Application for Wind Turbine Blade Ice Detection|Structures vibrate with their natural frequencies when disturbed from their equilibrium position. These frequencies reduce when an additional mass accumulates on their structures, like ice accumulation on wind turbines installed in cold climate sites. The added mass has two features: the location and quantity of mass. Natural frequencies of the structure reduce differently depending on these two features of the added mass. In this work, a technique based on an artificial neural network (ANN) model is proposed to identify added mass by training the neural network with a dataset of natural frequencies of the structure calculated using different quantities of the added mass at different locations on the structure. The proposed method is demonstrated on a non-rotating beam model fixed at one end. The length of the beam is divided into three zones in which different added masses are considered, and its natural frequencies are calculated using a finite element model of the beam. ANN is trained with this dataset of natural frequencies of the beam as an input and corresponding added masses used in the calculations as an output. ANN approximates the non-linear relationship between these inputs and outputs. An experimental setup of the cantilever beam is fabricated, and experimental modal analysis is carried out considering a few added masses on the beam. The frequencies estimated in the experiments are given as an input to the trained ANN model, and the identified masses are compared against the actual masses used in the experiments. These masses are identified with an error that varies with the location and the quantity of added mass. The reason for these errors can be attributed to the unaccounted stiffness variation in the beam model due to the added mass while generating the dataset for training the neural network. Therefore, the added masses are roughly estimated. At the end of the paper, an application of the current technique for detecting ice mass on a wind turbine blade is studied. A neural network model is designed and trained with a dataset of natural frequencies calculated using the finite element model of the blade considering different ice masses. The trained network model is tested to identify ice masses in four test cases that considers random mass distributions along the blade. The neural network model is able to roughly estimate ice masses, and the error reduces with increasing ice mass on the blade.
Q49|Application of Liquid Hydrogen with SMES for Efficient Use of Renewable Energy in the Energy Internet|Considering that generally frequency instability problems occur due to abrupt variations in load demand growth and power variations generated by different renewable energy sources (RESs), the application of superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES) may become crucial due to its rapid response features. In this paper, liquid hydrogen with SMES (LIQHYSMES) is proposed to play a role in the future energy internet in terms of its combination of the SMES and the liquid hydrogen storage unit, which can help to overcome the capacity limit and high investment cost disadvantages of SMES. The generalized predictive control (GPC) algorithm is presented to be appreciatively used to eliminate the frequency deviations of the isolated micro energy grid including the LIQHYSMES and RESs. A benchmark micro energy grid with distributed generators (DGs), electrical vehicle (EV) stations, smart loads and a LIQHYSMES unit is modeled in the Matlab/Simulink environment. The simulation results show that the proposed GPC strategy can reschedule the active power output of each component to maintain the stability of the grid. In addition, in order to improve the performance of the SMES, a detailed optimization design of the superconducting coil is conducted, and the optimized SMES unit can offer better technical advantages in damping the frequency fluctuations.
Q49|k-Nearest Neighbor Neural Network Models for Very Short-Term Global Solar Irradiance Forecasting Based on Meteorological Data|This paper proposes a novel methodology for very short term forecasting of hourly global solar irradiance (GSI). The proposed methodology is based on meteorology data, especially for optimizing the operation of power generating electricity from photovoltaic (PV) energy. This methodology is a combination of k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) algorithm modelling and artificial neural network (ANN) model. The k-NN-ANN method is designed to forecast GSI for 60 min ahead based on meteorology data for the target PV station which position is surrounded by eight other adjacent PV stations. The novelty of this method is taking into account the meteorology data. A set of GSI measurement samples was available from the PV station in Taiwan which is used as test data. The first method implements k-NN as a preprocessing technique prior to ANN method. The error statistical indicators of k-NN-ANN model the mean absolute bias error (MABE) is 42 W/m2 and the root-mean-square error (RMSE) is 242 W/m2. The models forecasts are then compared to measured data and simulation results indicate that the k-NN-ANN-based model presented in this research can calculate hourly GSI with satisfactory accuracy.
Q49|Using a Reactive Transport Simulator to Simulate CH4 Production from Bear Island Basin in the Barents Sea Utilizing the Depressurization Method†|The enormous amount of methane stored in natural gas hydrates (NGHs)worldwide offers a signiﬁcant potential source of energy. NGHs will be generally unable to reach thermodynamic equilibrium at their in situ reservoir conditions due to the number of active phases involved. Lack of reliable ﬁeld data makes it difﬁcult to predict the production potential and safety of CH4 production from NGHs. While the computer simulations will never be able to replace ﬁeld data, one can apply state-of-the-artmodellingtechniquestoevaluateseveralpossiblelong-termscenarios. Realistic kinetic models for hydrate dissociation and reformation will be required, as well as analysis of all phase transition routes. This work utilizes our in-house extension of RetrasoCodeBright (RCB), a reactive transport simulator, to perform a gas hydrate production case study of the Bjørnøya (Bear Island) basin, a promising ﬁeld with very limited geological data reported by available ﬁeld studies. The use of a reactive transport simulator allowed us to implement non-equilibrium thermodynamics for analysisofCH4 production from the gas hydrates by treating each phase transition involving hydrates as a pseudo reaction. Our results showed a rapid propagation of the pressure drop through the reservoir following the imposition of pressure drawdown at the well. Consequently, gas hydrate dissociation and CH4 production began in the early stages of the ﬁve-year simulation period.
Q49|Fourier, Wavelet, and Hilbert-Huang Transforms for Studying Electrical Users in the Time and Frequency Domain|The analysis of electrical signals is a pressing requirement for the optimal design of power distribution. In this context, this paper illustrates how to use a variety of numerical tools, such as the Fourier, wavelet, and Hilbert-Huang transforms, to obtain information relating to the active and reactive power absorbed by different types of users. In particular, the Fourier spectrum gives the most important frequency components of the electrical signals, and the wavelet analysis highlights the non-stationarity of those frequency contributions, whereas the Hilbert-Huang transform, by means of the Empirical Mode Decomposition, provides a more complete spectrum of frequencies.
Q49|On-Line Junction Temperature Monitoring of Switching Devices with Dynamic Compact Thermal Models Extracted with Model Order Reduction|Residual lifetime estimation has gained a key point among the techniques that improve the reliability and the efficiency of power converters. The main cause of failures are the junction temperature cycles exhibited by switching devices during their normal operation; therefore, reliable power converter lifetime estimation requires the knowledge of the junction temperature time profile. Since on-line dynamic temperature measurements are extremely difficult, in this work an innovative real-time monitoring strategy is proposed, which is capable of estimating the junction temperature profile from the measurement of the dissipated powers through an accurate and compact thermal model of the whole power module. The equations of this model can be easily implemented inside a FPGA, exploiting the control architecture already present in modern power converters. Experimental results on an IGBT power module demonstrate the reliability of the proposed method.
Q49|Assessment of an Adaptive Load Forecasting Methodology in a Smart Grid Demonstration Project|This paper presents the implementation of an adaptive load forecasting methodology in two different power networks from a smart grid demonstration project deployed in the region of Madrid, Spain. The paper contains an exhaustive comparative study of different short-term load forecast methodologies, addressing the methods and variables that are more relevant to be applied for the smart grid deployment. The evaluation followed in this paper suggests that the performance of the different methods depends on the conditions of the site in which the smart grid is implemented. It is shown that some non-linear methods, such as support vector machine with a radial basis function kernel and extremely randomized forest offer good performance using only 24 lagged load hourly values, which could be useful when the amount of data available is limited due to communication problems in the smart grid monitoring system. However, it has to be highlighted that, in general, the behavior of different short-term load forecast methodologies is not stable when they are applied to different power networks and that when there is a considerable variability throughout the whole testing period, some methods offer good performance in some situations, but they fail in others. In this paper, an adaptive load forecasting methodology is proposed to address this issue improving the forecasting performance through iterative optimization: in each specific situation, the best short-term load forecast methodology is chosen, resulting in minimum prediction errors.
Q49|Energy Performance and Flow Patterns of a Mixed-Flow Pump with Different Tip Clearance Sizes|Tip clearance between blade end and shroud is inevitable in pump operation and of great importance on pump energy performance and pressure fluctuation. As the tip clearance size increases, the head and efficiency of the mixed flow pump drop accordingly. The simulation results show that the development of a leakage vortex is observed as the tip clearance increases, and the trajectory of this leakage vortex remains in the same direction along the blade suction side for different tip clearances. With the increase in tip clearance size, the intensity of the leakage vortex is enhanced, and the separation between the main leakage vortex and the secondary leakage vortex is also strengthened. The leakage separation angle near the blade tip remains at the same value of 10° for different tip clearance sizes. As for the spectrum analysis, the maximum amplitudes of pressure fluctuations dramatically increase in the impeller when the tip clearance increases from 0.0 mm to 1.0 mm, and the dominant frequencies go from 145 Hz to 184 Hz due to the considerable leakage flow.
Q49|Used Cooking Oils in the Biogas Chain: A Technical and Economic Assessment|The current concerns on global energy security, climate change, and environmental pollution represent some of the major elements of the growing interest on renewable energy. In this framework agro-food energy systems are at the center of a twofold debate: on the one hand they represent a key option for energy production while on the other their sustainability is threatened by the expansion of the bioenergy market that could lead to negative social and environmental consequences. The aim of this work is to evaluate—through a case study—the technical and economic feasibility of the replacement of energy crops (ECs) with used cooking oil (UCO) in an anaerobic digestion (AD) full-scale plant. At this purpose, a full-scale plant performing AD was monitored for two years. Three scenarios were developed and compared to evaluate the impacts and the potential benefits in terms of land saving in case of a substitution of ECs with UCO. Results highlighted a reduction of land use of over 50% if UCO is introduced in co-digestion with ECs. The lack of an appropriate legislative framework limits the utilization of used cooking oils (UCOs) in AD with a consequently missed opportunity for biogas owners that could find an important alternative in UCO.
Q49|Integration of Electric Springs and Multi-Port Transformers—A New Solution for AC Microgrids with Renewable Energy Sources|The new concept of integrating electric springs (ESs) and multi-port transformers (MTPs) as an active solution for energy management in alternating current (AC) microgrids is proposed. With an ES located at the port where storage devices previously were, the so-called critical flux is regulated to a constant value within the core of the transformer. The voltage on each winding is then clamped so that critical load (CL) voltage is regulated to a predefined value. The integration of ESs and MPTs can ensure a safer environment for ES utilization. Thus, the power generated by renewable energy sources can be safely used at residential locations with no need to worry about voltage fluctuations across CLs. Moreover, users can sell electricity to the power companies considered as CLs when the electricity generation of the AC microgrids or the home-installed renewable energy resources exceeds the personal consumption. In the paper, isolated topologies for ESs with three- and four-port transformers are examined, and a theoretical analysis of the ES operation is carried out. Then, equivalent circuits of the isolated ES topologies have been derived. Analysis of the ES operation and effectiveness of the isolated ES topologies are validated by both simulations and experiments.
Q49|Data-Reconciliation Based Fault-Tolerant Model Predictive Control for a Biomass Boiler|This paper presents a novel, effective method to handle critical sensor faults affecting a control system devised to operate a biomass boiler. In particular, the proposed method consists of integrating a data reconciliation algorithm in a model predictive control loop, so as to annihilate the effects of faults occurring in the sensor of the flue gas oxygen concentration, by feeding the controller with the reconciled measurements. Indeed, the oxygen content in flue gas is a key variable in control of biomass boilers due its close connections with both combustion efficiency and polluting emissions. The main benefit of including the data reconciliation algorithm in the loop, as a fault tolerant component, with respect to applying standard fault tolerant methods, is that controller reconfiguration is not required anymore, since the original controller operates on the restored, reliable data. The integrated data reconciliation–model predictive control (MPC) strategy has been validated by running simulations on a specific type of biomass boiler—the KPA Unicon BioGrate boiler.
Q49|An Experimental Study on the Thermal Performance of Phase-Change Material and Wood-Plastic Composites for Building Roofs|We assessed the usefulness of phase-change material (PCM)-based thermal plates fabricated from wood-plastic composites (WPCs) in mitigating the urban heat island effect. The thermal performance of plates containing PCMs with two different melting temperatures and with two different albedo levels was evaluated. The results showed that the PCM with a melting temperature of 44 °C maintained lower surface and inner temperatures than the PCM with a melting temperature of 25 °C. Moreover, a higher surface albedo resulted in a lower surface temperature. However, the thermal performance of PCMs with different melting temperatures but the same surface albedo did not differ. Using PCM-based materials in roof finishing materials can reduce surface temperatures and improve thermal comfort.
Q49|Energy Conservation in an Office Building Using an Enhanced Blind System Control|The two spaces office module is usually considered as a representative case-study to analyse the energetic improvement in office buildings. In this kind of buildings, the use of a model predictive control (MPC) scheme for the climate system control provides energy savings over 15% in comparison to classic control policies. This paper focuses on the influence of solar radiation on the climate control of the office module under Belgian weather conditions. Considering MPC as main climate control, it proposes a novel distributed enhanced control for the blind system (BS) that takes into account part of the predictive information of the MPC. In addition to the savings that are usually achieved by MPC, it adds a potential 15% improvement in global energy use with respect to the usually proposed BS hysteresis control. Moreover, from the simulation results it can be concluded that the thermal comfort is also improved. The proposed BS scheme increases the energy use ratio between the thermally activated building system (TABS) and air-handling unit (AHU); therefore increasing the use of TABS and allowing economic savings, due to the use of more cost-effective thermal equipment.
Q49|Development of a General Package for Resolution of Uncertainty-Related Issues in Reservoir Engineering|Reservoir simulations always involve a large number of parameters to characterize the properties of formation and fluid, many of which are subject to uncertainties owing to spatial heterogeneity and insufficient measurements. To provide solutions to uncertainty-related issues in reservoir simulations, a general package called GenPack has been developed. GenPack includes three main functions required for full stochastic analysis in petroleum engineering, generation of random parameter fields, predictive uncertainty quantifications and automatic history matching. GenPack, which was developed in a modularized manner, is a non-intrusive package which can be integrated with any existing commercial simulator in petroleum engineering to facilitate its application. Computational efficiency can be improved both theoretically by introducing a surrogate model-based probabilistic collocation method, and technically by using parallel computing. A series of synthetic cases are designed to demonstrate the capability of GenPack. The test results show that the random parameter field can be flexibly generated in a customized manner for petroleum engineering applications. The predictive uncertainty can be reasonably quantified and the computational efficiency is significantly improved. The ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF)-based automatic history matching method can improve predictive accuracy and reduce the corresponding predictive uncertainty by accounting for observations.
Q49|Theoretical Analysis for Heat Transfer Optimization in Subcritical Electrothermal Energy Storage Systems|Electrothermal energy storage (ETES) provides bulk electricity storage based on heat pump and heat engine technologies. A subcritical ETES is described in this paper. Based on the extremum principle of entransy dissipation, a geometry model is developed for heat transfer optimization for subcritical ETES. The exergy during the heat transfer process is deduced in terms of entropy production. The geometry model is validated by the extremum principle of entropy production. The theoretical analysis results show that the extremum principle of entransy dissipation is an effective criterion for the optimization, and the optimum heat transfer for different cases with the same mass flux or pressure has been discussed. The optimum heat transfer can be achieved by adjusting the mass flux and pressure of the working fluid. It also reveals that with the increase of mass flux, there is a minimum exergy in the range under consideration, and the exergy decreases with the increase of the pressure.
Q49|The Role of Smart Meters in Enabling Real-Time Energy Services for Households: The Italian Case|The Smart Meter (SM) is an essential tool for successful balancing the demand-offer energy curve. It allows the linking of the consumption and production measurements with the time information and the customer’s identity, enabling the substitution of flat-price billing with smarter solutions, such as Time-of-Use or Real-Time Pricing. In addition to sending data to the energy operators for billing and monitoring purposes, Smart Meters must be able to send the same data to customer devices in near-real-time conditions, enabling new services such as instant energy awareness and home automation. In this article, we review the ongoing situation in Europe regarding real-time services for the final customers. Then, we review the architectural and technological options that have been considered for the roll-out phase of the Italian second generation of Smart Meters. Finally, we identify a collection of use cases, along with their functional and performance requirements, and discuss what architectures and communications technologies can meet these requirements.
Q49|Integration of Electric Vehicles into the Power Distribution Network with a Modified Capacity Allocation Mechanism|The growing penetration of electric vehicles (EVs) represents an operational challenge to system operators, mainly at the distribution level by introducing congestion and voltage drop problems. To solve these potential problems, a two-level coordination approach is proposed in this study. An aggregation entity, i.e., an EV virtual power plant (EV-VPP), is used to facilitate the interaction between the distribution system operator (DSO) and EV owners considering the decentralized electricity market structure. In level I, to prevent the line congestion and voltage drop problems, the EV-VPP internally respects the line and voltage constraints when making optimal charging schedules. In level II, to avoid power transformer congestion problems, this paper investigates three different coordination mechanisms, or power transformer capacity allocation mechanisms, between the DSO and the EV-VPPs, considering the case of EVs charging and discharging. The three mechanisms include: (1) a market-based approach; (2) a pro-rata approach; and (3) a newly-proposed constrained market-based approach. A case study considering a 37-bus distribution network and high penetration of electric vehicles is presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed coordination mechanism, comparing with the existing ones.
Q49|Efficiency Analysis of the Main Components of a Vertical Closed-Loop System in a Borehole Heat Exchanger|In vertical closed-loop systems, it is common to use single or double U-tube heat exchangers separated by longitudinal spacers. In addition, the helical-shaped pipe is another configuration that requires lower drilling lengths but it is less used. The aim of the present research is to study the influence of these components on the total efficiency of a borehole heat exchanger (BHE). Thus, the differences between using single/double U-tubes (with or without spacers) and helical pipes are analysed in terms of efficiency. Through different laboratory tests, a small vertical closed-loop system was simulated in order to analyse all these possible configurations. The grouting materials and the temperatures of the ground were modified at the same time in these tests. Regarding the heat exchange process between the ground and the heat carrier fluid, it must be highlighted that the best results were obtained for the helical-shaped pipe configuration. Some of the improvements offered by this heat exchanger typology with respect to the vertical configuration is that a lower drilling depth is required even it requires a larger diameter. This leads to significant economic savings in the performing drilling process. Finally, it is also worth noting the importance of using spacers in vertical U-tubes and that no improvements have been found regarding the use of single or double configuration of U-tubes. Thanks to the laboratory results derived from this study it is possible to establish the optimum behaviour pattern for the entire vertical closed-loop systems.
Q49|Energy-Extended CES Aggregate Production: Current Aspects of Their Specification and Econometric Estimation|Capital–labour–energy Constant Elasticity of Substitution (CES) production functions and their estimated parameters now form a key part of energy–economy models which inform energy and emissions policy. However, the collation and guidance as to the specification and estimation choices involved with such energy-extended CES functions is disparate. This risks poorly specified and estimated CES functions, with knock-on implications for downstream energy–economic models and climate policy. In response, as a first step, this paper assembles in one place the major considerations involved in the empirical estimation of these CES functions. Discussions of the choices and their implications lead to recommendations for CES empiricists. The extensive bibliography allows those interested to dig deeper into any aspect of the CES parameter estimation process.
Q49|From Theory to Econometrics to Energy Policy: Cautionary Tales for Policymaking Using Aggregate Production Functions|Development of energy policy is often informed by economic considerations via aggregate production functions (APFs). We identify a theory-to-policy process involving APFs comprised of six steps: (1) selecting a theoretical energy-economy framework; (2) formulating modeling approaches; (3) econometrically fitting an APF to historical economic and energy data; (4) comparing and evaluating modeling approaches; (5) interpreting the economy; and (6) formulating energy and economic policy. We find that choices made in Steps 1–4 can lead to very different interpretations of the economy (Step 5) and policies (Step 6). To investigate these effects, we use empirical data (Portugal and UK) and the Constant Elasticity of Substitution (CES) APF to evaluate four modeling choices: (a) rejecting (or not) the cost-share principle; (b) including (or not) energy; (c) quality-adjusting (or not) factors of production; and (d) CES nesting structure. Thereafter, we discuss two revealing examples for which different upstream modeling choices lead to very different policies. In the first example, the (kl)e nesting structure implies significant investment in energy, while other nesting structures suggest otherwise. In the second example, unadjusted factors of production suggest balanced investment in labor and energy, while quality-adjusting suggests significant investment in labor over energy. Divergent outcomes provide cautionary tales for policymakers: greater understanding of upstream modeling choices and their downstream implications is needed.
Q49|A Proportional Resonant Control Strategy for Efficiency Improvement in Extended Range Electric Vehicles|The key to control the range extender generation system is to improve the efficiency and reduce the emissions of the electric vehicle (EV). In this paper, based on the purpose of efficiency optimization, both engine and generator are matched to get a public high efficiency region, and a partial power following control strategy was presented. The engine speed is constant in the defined power range, so the output power regulation of the range extender is only realized by the adjustment of the torque of the generator. Engine speed and generator torque were decoupled. An improved proportional resonant (PR) controller is adopted to achieve fast output power regulation. In order to ensure the response characteristics of the control system and to improve the robustness, the impacts on system’s characteristics and stability caused by PR controller and parameters in the inner-current loop were analyzed via frequency response characteristics. A pre-Tustin with deviation compensation is proposed for PR controller’s discretization. A stable and robust power following control method is obtained for the range extender control system. Finally, simulation and experiment of the proposed control strategy illustrated its feasibility and correctness.
Q49|Technical Feasibility Study of Thermal Energy Storage Integration into the Conventional Power Plant Cycle|The current load balance in the grid is managed mainly through peaking fossil-fuelled power plants that respond passively to the load changes. Intermittency, which comes from renewable energy sources, imposes additional requirements for even more flexible and faster responses from conventional power plants. A major challenge is to keep conventional generation running closest to the design condition with higher load factors and to avoid switching off periods if possible. Thermal energy storage (TES) integration into the power plant process cycle is considered as a possible solution for this issue. In this article, a technical feasibility study of TES integration into a 375-MW subcritical oil-fired conventional power plant is presented. Retrofitting is considered in order to avoid major changes in the power plant process cycle. The concept is tested based on the complete power plant model implemented in the ProTRAX software environment. Steam and water parameters are assessed for different TES integration scenarios as a function of the plant load level. The best candidate points for heat extraction in the TES charging and discharging processes are evaluated. The results demonstrate that the integration of TES with power plant cycle is feasible and provide a provisional guidance for the design of the TES system that will result in the minimal influence on the power plant cycle.
Q49|A Cell-to-Cell Equalizer Based on Three-Resonant-State Switched-Capacitor Converters for Series-Connected Battery Strings|Due to the low cost, small size, and ease of control, the switched-capacitor (SC) battery equalizers are promising among active balancing methods. However, it is difficult to achieve the full cell equalization for the SC equalizers due to the inevitable voltage drops across Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor (MOSFET) switches. Moreover, when the voltage gap among cells is larger, the balancing efficiency is lower, while the balancing speed becomes slower as the voltage gap gets smaller. In order to soften these downsides, this paper proposes a cell-to-cell battery equalization topology with zero-current switching (ZCS) and zero-voltage gap (ZVG) among cells based on three-resonant-state SC converters. Based on the conventional inductor-capacitor (LC) converter, an additional resonant path is built to release the charge of the capacitor into the inductor in each switching cycle, which lays the foundations for obtaining ZVG among cells, improves the balancing efficiency at a large voltage gap, and increases the balancing speed at a small voltage gap. A four-lithium-ion-cell prototype is applied to validate the theoretical analysis. Experiment results demonstrate that the proposed topology has good equalization performances with fast equalization, ZCS, and ZVG among cells.
Q49|Linear Formulation for Short-Term Operational Scheduling of Energy Storage Systems in Power Grids|This paper presents linear programming (LP) formulations for short-term energy time-shift operational scheduling with energy storage systems (ESSs) in power grids. In particular, it is shown that the conventional nonlinear formulations for electric bill minimization, peak shaving, and load leveling can be formulated in the LP framework. New variables for the peak and off-peak values are introduced in peak shaving and load leveling model, and the historical peak value for demand charge are considered in the electric bill minimization model. The LP formulations simplify computation while maintaining the accuracy for including linear technical constraints of ESSs, such as the state-of-charge, charging/discharging efficiency, output power range, and energy limit considering the life cycle of ESS. Proposed LP formulations have been implemented and verified in practical power systems and a large-scale industrial customer using historical data.
Q49|Multi-Objective Planning Techniques in Distribution Networks: A Composite Review|Distribution networks (DNWs) are facing numerous challenges, notably growing load demands, environmental concerns, operational constraints and expansion limitations with the current infrastructure. These challenges serve as a motivation factor for various distribution network planning (DP) strategies, such as timely addressing load growth aiming at prominent objectives such as reliability, power quality, economic viability, system stability and deferring costly reinforcements. The continuous transformation of passive to active distribution networks (ADN) needs to consider choices, primarily distributed generation (DG), network topology change, installation of new protection devices and key enablers as planning options in addition to traditional grid reinforcements. Since modern DP (MDP) in deregulated market environments includes multiple stakeholders, primarily owners, regulators, operators and consumers, one solution fit for all planning scenarios may not satisfy all these stakeholders. Hence, this paper presents a review of several planning techniques (PTs) based on mult-objective optimizations (MOOs) in DNWs, aiming at better trade-off solutions among conflicting objectives and satisfying multiple stakeholders. The PTs in the paper spread across four distinct planning classifications including DG units as an alternative to costly reinforcements, capacitors and power electronic devices for ensuring power quality aspects, grid reinforcements, expansions, and upgrades as a separate category and network topology alteration and reconfiguration as a viable planning option. Several research works associated with multi-objective planning techniques (MOPT) have been reviewed with relevant models, methods and achieved objectives, abiding with system constraints. The paper also provides a composite review of current research accounts and interdependence of associated components in the respective classifications. The potential future planning areas, aiming at the multi-objective-based frameworks, are also presented in this paper.
Q49|Peaking China’s CO 2 Emissions: Trends to 2030 and Mitigation Potential|China has submitted its nationally determined contribution to peak its energy-related emissions around 2030. To understand how China might develop its economy while controlling CO 2 emissions, this study surveys a number of recent modeling scenarios that project the country’s economic growth, energy mix, and associated emissions until 2050. Our analysis suggests that China’s CO 2 emissions will continue to grow until 2040 or 2050 and will approximately double their 2010 level without additional policy intervention. The alternative scenario, however, suggests that peaking CO 2 emissions around 2030 requires the emission growth rate to be reduced by 2% below the reference level. This step would result in a plateau in China’s emissions from 2020 to 2030. This paper also proposed a deep de-carbonization pathway for China that is consistent with China’s goal of peaking emissions by around 2030, which can best be achieved through a combination of improvements in energy and carbon intensities. Our analysis also indicated that the potential for energy intensity decline will be limited over time. Thus, the peaking will be largely dependent on the share of non-fossil fuel energy in primary energy consumption.
Q49|Recycling Possibility of the Salty Food Waste by Pyrolysis and Water Scrubbing|Salty food waste is difficult to manage with previous methods such as composting, anaerobic digestion, and incineration, due to the hindrance of salt and the additional burden to handle high concentrations of organic wastewater produced when raw materials are cleaned. This study presents a possibility of recycling food waste as fuel without the burden of treatment washing with water by pyrolyzing and scrubbing. For this purpose, salty food waste with 3% NaCl was made using 10 materials and pyrolysis was conducted at temperature range between 200–400 °C. The result was drawn from elementary analysis (EA), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis, atomic absorption spectrophotometry (AAS) analysis, water quality analysis and calorific value analysis of char, washed char, and washing water. The result of the EA showed that NaCl in food waste could be volatilized at a low pyrolysis temperature of 200–300 °C and it could be concentrated and fixed in char at a high pyrolysis temperature of 300–400 °C. The XPS analysis result showed that NaCl existed in form of chloride. Through the Na content result of the AAS analysis, NaCl remaining in char after water scrubbing was determined to be less than 2%. As the pyrolysis temperature increased, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) value of scrubbing water decreased rapidly, but the total phosphorus and nitrogen contents decreased gradually. The cleaned pyrolysis char showed an increase of higher heating value (HHV) approximately 3667–9920 J/g due to the removal of salt from the char and, especially at 300–400 °C, showed a similar HHV with normal fossil fuels. In conclusion, salty food waste, which is pyrolyzed at a temperature of 300–400 °C and cleaned by water, can be utilized as high-energy refuse derived fuel (RDF), without adverse effects, due to the volatilization of Cl and an additional process of contaminated water.
Q49|Hydrothermal Carbonization of Waste Biomass: Process Design, Modeling, Energy Efficiency and Cost Analysis|In this paper, a hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) process is designed and modeled on the basis of experimental data previously obtained for two representative organic waste materials: off-specification compost and grape marc. The process accounts for all the steps and equipment necessary to convert raw moist biomass into dry and pelletized hydrochar. By means of mass and thermal balances and based on common equations specific to the various equipment, thermal energy and power consumption were calculated at variable process conditions: HTC reactor temperature T: 180, 220, 250 °C; reaction time θ: 1, 3, 8 h. When operating the HTC plant with grape marc (65% moisture content) at optimized process conditions (T = 220 °C; θ = 1 h; dry biomass to water ratio = 0.19), thermal energy and power consumption were equal to 1170 kWh and 160 kWh per ton of hydrochar produced, respectively. Correspondingly, plant efficiency was 78%. In addition, the techno-economical aspects of the HTC process were analyzed in detail, considering both investment and production costs. The production cost of pelletized hydrochar and its break-even point were determined to be 157 €/ton and 200 €/ton, respectively. Such values make the use of hydrochar as a CO 2 neutral biofuel attractive.
Q49|Effect of Doubly Fed Induction GeneratorTidal Current Turbines on Stability of a Distribution Grid under Unbalanced Voltage Conditions|This paper analyses the effects of doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) tidal current turbines on a distribution grid under unbalanced voltage conditions of the grid. A dynamic model of an electrical power system under the unbalanced network is described in the paper, aiming to compare the system performance when connected with and without DFIG at the same location in a distribution grid. Extensive simulations of investigating the effect of DFIG tidal current turbine on stability of the distribution grid are performed, taking into account factors such as the power rating, the connection distance of the turbine and the grid voltage dip. The dynamic responses of the distribution system are examined, especially its ability to ride through fault events under unbalanced grid voltage conditions. The research has shown that DFIG tidal current turbines can provide a good damping performance and that modern DFIG tidal current power plants, equipped with power electronics and low-voltage ride-through capability, can stay connected to weak electrical grids even under the unbalanced voltage conditions, whilst not reducing system stability.
Q49|Hybrid System Modeling and Full Cycle Operation Analysis of a Two-Stroke Free-Piston Linear Generator|Free-piston linear generators (FPLGs) have attractive application prospects for hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) owing to their high-efficiency, low-emissions and multi-fuel flexibility. In order to achieve long-term stable operation, the hybrid system design and full-cycle operation strategy are essential factors that should be considered. A 25 kW FPLG consisting of an internal combustion engine (ICE), a linear electric machine (LEM) and a gas spring (GS) is designed. To improve the power density and generating efficiency, the LEM is assembled with two modular flat-type double-sided PM LEM units, which sandwich a common moving-magnet plate supported by a middle keel beam and bilateral slide guide rails to enhance the stiffness of the moving plate. For the convenience of operation processes analysis, the coupling hybrid system is modeled mathematically and a full cycle simulation model is established. Top-level systemic control strategies including the starting, stable operating, fault recovering and stopping strategies are analyzed and discussed. The analysis results validate that the system can run stably and robustly with the proposed full cycle operation strategy. The effective electric output power can reach 26.36 kW with an overall system efficiency of 36.32%.
Q49|Stochastic Optimal Control of Parallel Hybrid Electric Vehicles|Energy management strategies (EMSs) in hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) are highly related to the fuel economy and emission performances. However, EMS constitutes a challenging problem due to the complex structure of a HEV and the unknown or partially known driving cycles. To meet this problem, this paper adopts a stochastic dynamic programming (SDP) method for the EMS of a specially designed vehicle, a pre-transmission single-shaft torque-coupling parallel HEV. In this parallel HEV, the auto clutch output is connected to the transmission input through an electric motor, which benefits an efficient motor assist operation. In this EMS, demanded torque of driver is modeled as a one-state Markov process to represent the uncertainty of future driving situations. The obtained EMS has been evaluated with ADVISOR2002 over two standard government drive cycles and a self-defined one, and compared with a dynamic programming (DP) one and a rule-based one. Simulation results have shown the real-time performance of the proposed approach, and potential vehicle performance improvement relative to the rule-based one.
Q49|An Energy-Based Control Strategy for Battery Energy Storage Systems: A Case Study on Microgrid Applications|Battery energy storage systems (BESSs) with proportional-integral (PI) control methods have been widely studied in microgrids (MGs). However, the performance of PI control methods might be unsatisfactory for BESSs due to the nonlinear characteristics of the system. To overcome this problem, an energy-based (EB) control method is applied to control the converter of a BESS in this study. The EB method is a robust nonlinear control method based on passivity theory with good performance in both transient and steady states. The detailed design process of the EB method in the BESS by adopting an interconnection and damping assignment (IDA) strategy is described. The design process comprises three steps: the construction of the port-controlled Hamiltonian model, the determination of the equilibrium point and the solution of the undetermined matrix. In addition, integral action is combined to eliminate the steady state error generated by the model mismatch. To establish the correctness and validity of the proposed method, we implement several case simulation studies based on a test MG system and compare the control performance of the EB and PI methods carefully. The case simulation results demonstrate that the EB method has better tracking and anti-disturbance performance compared with the classic PI method. Moreover, the proposed EB method shows stronger robustness to the uncertainty of system parameters.
Q49|A Novel Electric Vehicle Powertrain System Supporting Multi-Path Power Flows: Its Architecture, Parameter Determination and System Simulation|In this paper, a novel electric vehicle powertrain system is proposed. In the system, a coaxial magnetic gear (CMG), an electromagnetic clutch, a lock, and two electric machines (EMs) are adopted to achieve the power-split by controlling the states of the clutch and the lock, which enables electric vehicles (EVs) to work in four operation modes. The configuration, power flow paths and operation modes are depicted in detail. A dynamic model is established to help determine the parameters and build simulation models. The simple control strategy is adopted to achieve flexible power-splits. How to determine the relevant parameters to meet the drive requirements in the powertrain system is also elaborated. A dynamic simulation using MATLAB/Simulink is performed to take into account the control strategy and New European Drive Cycle. Finally, the simulation results demonstrate, in theory, the rationality of the determined parameters and the feasibility of the operation modes as well as the control strategy.
Q49|A Maximum Efficiency Point Tracking Control Scheme Based on Different Cross Coupling of Dual-Receiver Inductive Power Transfer System|One of the most promising inductive power transfer applications is the wireless power supply for locomotives which may cancel the need for pantographs. In order to meet the dynamic and high power demands of wireless power supplies for locomotives, a relatively long transmitter track and multiple receivers are usually adopted. However, during the dynamic charging, the mutual inductances between the transmitter and receivers vary and the load of the locomotives also changes randomly, which dramatically affects the system efficiency. A maximum efficiency point tracking control scheme is proposed to improve the system efficiency against the variation of the load and the mutual inductances between the transmitter and receivers while considering the cross coupling between receivers. Firstly, a detailed theoretical analysis on dual receivers is carried out. Then a control scheme with three control loops is proposed to regulate the receiver currents to be the same, to regulate the output voltage and to search for the maximum efficiency point. Finally, a 2 kW prototype is established to validate the performance of the proposed method. The overall system efficiency (DC-DC efficiency) reaches 90.6% at rated power and is improved by 5.8% with the proposed method under light load compared with the traditional constant output voltage control method.
Q49|Geospatial Analysis of Photovoltaic Mini-Grid System Performance|We present a geographic information system (GIS)-based tool for estimating the performance of photovoltaic (PV) mini-grid system over large geographical areas. The methodology consists of geospatial analysis and mapping of the energy output and reliability of PV mini-grid system. The algorithm uses a combination of hourly solar radiation data from satellites combined with measured data on PV module and battery performance and estimated electricity consumption data. The methods also make it possible to optimize the PV array and battery storage size for a given location. Results are presented for an area covering Africa and most of Southern and Central Asia. We also investigate the effects of using Li-ion batteries instead of the traditional lead-acid batteries. The use of our spatial analysis as decision support tool could help governments, local authorities and non-governmental organizations to investigate the suitability of PV mini-grids for electrification of regions where access to electricity is lacking. In this way it is possible to identify areas where PV mini-grids are most suitable.
Q49|Thermal Analysis of a Thermal Energy Storage Unit to Enhance a Workshop Heating System Driven by Industrial Residual Water|Various energy sources can be used for room heating, among which waste heat utilization has significantly improved in recent years. However, the majority of applicable waste heat resources are high-grade or stable thermal energy, while the low-grade or unstable waste heat resources, especially low-temperature industrial residual water (IRW), are insufficiently used. A thermal energy storage (TES) unit with paraffin wax as a phase change material (PCM) is designed to solve this problem in a pharmaceutical plant. The mathematical models are developed to simulate the heat storage and release processes of the TES unit. The crucial parameters in the recurrence formulae are determined: the phase change temperature range of the paraffin wax used is 47 to 56 °C, and the latent heat is 171.4 kJ/kg. Several thermal behaviors, such as the changes of melting radius, solidification radius, and fluid temperature, are simulated. In addition, the amount of heat transferred, the heat transfer rate, and the heat storage efficiency are discussed. It is presented that the medicine production unit could save 10.25% of energy consumption in the investigated application.
Q49|Robust Clamping Force Control of an Electro-Mechanical Brake System for Application to Commercial City Buses|This paper proposes a sensor-less robust force control method for improving the control performance of an electro-mechanical brake (EMB) which is applicable to commercial city buses. The EMB generates the accurate clamping force commanded by a driver through an independent motor control at each wheel instead of using existing mechanical components. In general, an EMB undergoes parameter variation and a backdrivability problem. For this reason, the cascade control strategy (e.g., force-position cascade control structure) is proposed and the disturbance observer is employed to enhance control robustness against model variations. Additionally, this paper proposed the clamping force estimation method for a sensor-less control, i.e., the clamping force observer (CFO). Finally, in order to confirm the performance and effectiveness of a proposed robust control method, several experiments are performed and analyzed.
