Q50|Distributed Optimal Control Models in Environmental Economics: A Review|We review the most recent advances in distributed optimal control applied to environmental economics, covering in particular problems where the state dynamics are governed by partial differential equations (PDEs). This is a quite fresh application area of distributed optimal control, which has already suggested several new mathematical research lines due to the specificities of the environmental economics problems involved. We enhance the latter through a survey of the variety of themes and associated mathematical structures beared by this literature. We also provide a quick tour of the existing tools in the theory of distributed optimal control that have been applied so far in environmental economics.
Q50|Expected Costs of Damage From Hurricane Winds and Storm-Related Flooding|Damage from hurricane winds, storm surges, and heavy rain imposes costs on private entities, such as households and businesses, and on all levels of government. By CBOâ€™s estimate, the expected economic losses (average losses over the long run) from most types of such damage total $54 billion per year: $34 billion to the residential sector, $9 billion to commercial businesses, and $12 billion to the public sector.
Q50|The effects of climate change on a small open economy|We investigate the impact of climate change on the macroeconomic performance of a small open economy. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a small open economy without monetary policy independence in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values, fiscal data and projections about temperature growth from the Greek economy. Our results, suggest that climate change implies a significant output loss and a dramatic deterioration of competitiveness.
Q50|Does Access to Health Care Mitigate Environmental Damages?|Differential access to health care is commonly cited as a source of heterogeneity in environmental health damages, yet little causal evidence exists to support such claims. We address this deficit in two settings by testing whether the negative impacts of ambient temperature exposure on mortality were mitigated by (1) access to primary care through the Community Health Center program, and (2) access to hospital care through the desegregation of Southern hospitals. The results demonstrate that increased access to health care can drive heterogeneity in environmental damages when the mode of care is sufficiently relevant to the damages suffered.
Q50|CO2-Bepreisung im Wärme- und Verkehrssektor: Erweiterung des Emissionshandels löst aktuelles Klimaschutzproblem nicht|Gegenwärtig sind die verschiedenen Energieträger in Deutschland unterschiedlich stark mit Abgaben und Umlagen belastet. Um die energie- und klimapolitischen Ziele der Bundesregierung zu erreichen, müssen fossile Heiz- und Kraftstoffe stärker bepreist werden (Kemfert et al. 2019; Dertinger und Schill 2019, SRU 2019). Zugleich herrscht in der energiepolitischen Debatte Uneinigkeit über die die Ausgestaltung einer CO2-Bepreisung. Eine Möglichkeit besteht darin, den EU-Emissionshandels (EUETS) auf die bislang nicht abgedeckten Sektoren Verkehr und Wärme europaweit, für eine Gruppe von EU-Mitgliedstaaten oder national auszuweiten. Eine weitere Option ist ein separates nationales Emissionshandelssystem für diese Sektoren einzuführen und eine dritte die Besteuerung zu reformieren, indem eine CO2-basierte Komponente in der Energiesteuer eingeführt wird. Der Sachverständigenrat zur Begutachtung der gesamtwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung (SVR) empfiehlt, den EU-ETS europaweit bis zum Jahr 2030 auf die Sektoren Verkehr und Gebäude auszuweiten sowie einen nationalen Emissionshandel oder eine CO2-Steuer als Übergangslösung zu etablieren (SVR 2019). Auch der Wissenschaftliche Beirat des Bundesministeriums für Wirtschaft und Energie (BMWi) spricht sich dafür aus, den Zertifikatehandel auszuweiten: Die Preiskorridore für die verschiedenen Sektoren sollen sich zunächst unterscheiden und mittelfristig in einem einheitlichen europäischen Emissionsmarkt zusammengeführt werden (BMWi 2019). Mit folgendem Beitrag werden unterschiedliche Optionen für eine CO2-Bepreisung beschrieben und bewertet. Dabei werden neben der ökonomischen Perspektive (statische und dynamische Effizienz sowie ökologische Effektivität) auch die juristische und politische Durchsetzbarkeit berücksichtigt.
Q50|Are Consumers Attentive to Local Energy Costs? Evidence from the Appliance Market|We estimate whether consumers respond to local energy costs when purchasing appliances. Using a dataset from an appliance retailer, we compare demand responsiveness to a measure of energy costs that varies with local energy prices versus purchase prices. We strongly reject that consumers are unresponsive to local energy costs under a wide range of assumptions. These findings run counter to the popular wisdom, which motivates energy standards, that energy costs are a shrouded attribute. Capital investments are an important channel for electricity demand response and may explain some of the large differences between short and long run electricity price elasticities.
Q50|Heterogeneous (Mis-) Perceptions of Energy Costs: Implications for Measurement and Policy Design|Quantifying heterogeneity in consumers’ misperceptions of product costs is crucial for policy design. We illustrate this point in the energy context and the design of Pigouvian policies. We estimate non-parametric distributions of perceptions of energy costs in the U.S. appliance market using a revealed preference approach. We show that the average degree of misperception is misleading— while the largest share of consumers correctly perceives energy costs, a significant share undervalues them, and smaller shares either significantly overvalues or completely ignores them. We show that setting a tax based on mean misperception deviates substantially from the optimal tax that accounts for heterogeneous misperceptions. While correctly characterizing misperception is crucial for setting optimal Pigouvian taxes for externalities, it is less important for setting optimal standards. We find that standards can largely outperform taxes. Standards’ advantage is they reduce variance in energy operating costs relative to taxes, which internalizes distortionary effects from misperceptions.
Q50|Can the environment be an inferior good? A theory with context-dependent substitutability and needs|Theoretical models often assume the environment to be a normal good, irrespective of one’s income. However, a priori, nothing prohibits an environmental good from being normal for some individuals and inferior for others. We develop a conceptual framework in which private consumption and an environmental public good act as substitutes or com-plements for satisfying different needs. Subsequently, the environment can switch between normal and inferior depending on one’s income and environment. If the environment is in-ferior for some range of income, then the willingness to pay for environmental preservation becomes non-monotonic, thereby having implications for benefit transfers.
Q50|Working Paper 01-19 - Future evolution of the car stock in Belgium: CASMO, the new satellite of PLANET|The new Belgian CAr Stock MOdel, which is linked to the national transport demand model PLANET, is structured as follows: (a) The total desired car stock in each future year is a function of the country's population and GDP per capita. (b) The probability that a car is scrapped is modelled as a function of its age and accumulated mileage. The desired car stock is then confronted with the remaining car stock to determine total car purchases. (c) Total sales are allocated to individual emission classes, using the parameter values of a Stated Preference discrete choice model. The model is then calibrated in order to reflect the current market and policy context in Belgium (d) The results are mapped into an inventory that is aggregated according to the EURO emission class. (e) In order to represent that the non-price barriers to electrified cars will decrease over time, we have implemented an alternative approach where the perceived acquisition costs decrease over time. Alternatively, this approach can be used to explore what would be the required decrease in subjective costs to reach a given future market share.
Q50|Distributed Optimal Control Models in Environmental Economics: A Review|We review the most recent advances in distributed optimal control applied to environmental economics, covering in particular problems where the state dynamics are governed by partial differential equations (PDEs). This is a quite fresh application area of distributed optimal control, which has already suggested several new mathematical research lines due to the specificities of the environmental economics problems involved. We enhance the latter through a survey of the variety of themes and associated mathematical structures beared by this literature. We also provide a quick tour of the existing tools in the theory of distributed optimal control that have been applied so far in environmental economics
Q50|Can the environment be an inferior good ? A theory with context-dependent substitutability and needs|Empirical evidence and theoretical frameworks mostly suggest normality of public environmental goods. In this paper, we argue there is no reason an environmental good should be categorized as inferior, normal or luxury in all decision contexts. We develop a model that allows public environmental goods to switch from one category to another, depending on individual income and environmental quality levels (i.e., the context). Our model is based on needs within which private consumption and environmental goods may interact differently (substitutes/complements). We formalize utility functional forms that comply with our framework. We finally derive some policy implications for environmental benefit transfers.
Q50|Agency in regional path development: Towards a bio-economy in Värmland, Sweden|Despite significant interest in regional industrial restructuring in economic geography, surprisingly scarce attention has been paid to the changing role of agency over time. The current paper develops a framework for understanding the role of multiple types of agents and the agency they exercise for new path development. The framework is employed in a longitudinal study of industry development in Värmland, Sweden, from forestry towards a bio-economy. The analysis highlights how actors exercise very different types of agency in different periods of path development.
Q50|Optimization of age-structured bioeconomic model: recruitment, weight gain and environmental effects|More and more fishery researchers begin to acknowledge that one-dimensional biomass models may omit key information when generating management guidelines. For the more complicated age-structured models, numerous parameters require a proper estimation or a reasonable assumption. In this paper, the effects of recruitment patterns and environmental impacts on the optimal exploitation of a fish population are investigated. Based on a discrete-time age-structured bioeconomic model of Northeast Atlantic mackerel, we introduce the mechanisms that generate 6 scenarios of the problem. Using the simplest scenario, optimizations are conducted under 8 different parameter combinations. Then, the problem is solved for each scenario and simulations are conducted with constant fishing mortalities. It is found that a higher environmental volatility leads to more net profits but with a lower probability of achieving the mean values. Any parameter combination that favours the older fish tends to lend itself to pulse fishing pattern. The simulations indicate that a constant fishing mortality around 0.06 performs the best. A comparison between the optimal and the historical harvest shows that for more than 70% of the time, the optimal exploitation precedes the historical one, leading to 43% higher net profit and 34% lower fishing cost.
Q50|Greed is good: from super-harvest to recovery in a stochastic predator-prey system|This paper demonstrates a predator-prey system of cod and capelin that confronts a possible scenario of prey extinction under the first-best policy in a stochastic world. We discover a novel ‘super-harvest’ phenomenon that the optimal harvest of the predator is even higher than the myopic policy, or the ‘greedy solution’, on part of the state space. This intrinsic attempt to harvest more predator to protect the prey is a critical evidence supporting the idea behind ‘greed is good’. We ban prey harvest and increase predator harvest in a designated state space area based on the optimal policy. Three heuristic recovery plans are generated following this principle. We employ stochastic simulations to analyse the probability of prey recovery and evaluate corresponding costs in terms of value loss percentage. We find that the alternative policies enhance prey recovery rates mostly around the area of 50% recovery probability under the optimal policy. When we scale up the predator harvest by 1.5, the prey recovery rate escalates for as much as 28% at a cost of 5% value loss. We establish two strategies: modest deviation from the optimal on a large area or intense measure on a small area. It seems more cost-effective to target the stock space with accuracy than to simply boost predator harvest when the aim is to achieve remarkable improvement of prey recovery probability.
Q50|Autonomous vessels: State of the art and potential opportunities in logistics|The growth in technology on autonomous transportation systems is currently motivating a number of research initiatives. This paper first presents a survey of the literature on autonomous marine vessels in general. By identifying the main research interests in this field, we define nine thematic categories. The collected articles are then classified according to these categories. We show that research on autonomous vessels has increased dramatically in the past decade. However, most of the published articles have focused on navigation control and safety issues. Studies regarding other topics, such as transport and logistics, are very limited. While our main interest is the literature on autonomous vessels, we contrast its development with respect to the literature on autonomous cars so as to have a better understanding about the future potentials in the research on autonomous vessels. The comparison shows that there are great opportunities for research about transportation and logistics with autonomous vessels. Finally, several potential research areas regarding logistics with autonomous vessels are proposed. As the technology behind remote-controlled or autonomous ships is maturing rapidly, we believe that it is already time for researchers in the field to start looking into future water-borne transport and logistics using autonomous vessels.
Q50|When do people exploit moral wiggle room? An experimental analysis in a market setup|We investigate if decision makers exploit moral wiggle room in green market settings. We therefore implement a laboratory experiment in which subjects purchase products associated with externalities. In six between-subjects treatments, we alter the availability of information on the externalities, the price of revealing information as well as the nature of the externality, which could either affect another subject or change the amount spent by the experimenters on carbon offsets. We find that subjects do not exploit moral wiggle room when revealing information is costless. When a very small cost of revealing information is introduced, their behavior depends on the relation between prices and externalities. In situations in which it is relatively cheap to have a large impact on the recipient's payoff, subjects exploit moral wiggle room in order to choose selfishly. For other parametrizations, subjects behave either honestly egoistically or altruistically.
Q50|Economy-wide analysis of food waste reductions and related costs|Reducing food waste has become a policy priority in recent years as many studies show that a significant amount of food is wasted at various stages of the food supply chain. However, the economic impacts of food waste reduction have not been studied in depth as most of the studies in the literature ignore the cost and feedback effects. The aim of this report is to develop a general framework to analyse the economic impacts of reducing food waste in EU28 in both a global and a regional context in support of the EU policy making process on food waste reduction. For the purposes of this study, we employ the CGEBox toolbox which is a flexible, extendable, and modular code basis for CGE modelling. The default configuration of CGEBox used in this study covers the global economy with a detailed representation of the agriculture and food production sector whereas the EU28 is modelled at NUTS-II level. The impact of a food waste reduction equal to 5% of the intermediate input use of food processing sectors under two different cost assumptions is analysed in the scenarios. Firstly, in the cost neutral scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is equal to the monetary savings for the food processing industry. Secondly, in the pessimistic scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is twice as much as the cost savings made by reducing food waste. The results suggest that a unilateral commitment by the EU to reducing food loss and waste would most likely decrease the competitiveness of the EUâ€™s food processing. Reduced demand for primary agricultural inputs would shrink the EUâ€™s agricultural sectors, putting pressure on farm incomes and land prices. The contribution to global food security would be very minor. The impact on emissions relevant to climate change at global level is also minor, with a very limited contribution within the EU.
Q50|Temperature and Mental Health: Evidence from the Spectrum of Mental Health Outcomes|This paper characterizes the link between ambient temperatures and a broad set of mental health outcomes. We find that higher temperatures increase emergency department visits for mental illness, suicides, and self-reported days of poor mental health. Specifically, cold temperatures reduce negative mental health outcomes while hot temperatures increase them. Our estimates reveal no evidence of adaptation, instead the temperature relationship is stable across time, baseline climate, air conditioning penetration rates, accessibility of mental health services, and other factors. The character of the results suggests that temperature affects mental health very differently than physical health, and more similarly to other psychological and behavioral outcomes. We provide suggestive evidence for sleep disruption as an active mechanism behind our results and discuss the implications of our findings for the allocation of mental health services and in light of climate change.
Q50|Indoor Air Quality and Cognitive Performance|This paper studies the causal impact of indoor air quality on the cognitive performance of individuals using data from official chess tournaments. We use a chess engine to evaluate the quality of moves made by individual players and merge this information with measures of air quality inside the tournament venue. The results show that poor indoor air quality hampers cognitive performance significantly. We find that an increase in the indoor concentration of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) by 10 μg/m3 increases a player's probability of making an erroneous move by 26.3%. The impact increases in both magnitude and statistical significance with rising time pressure. The effect of the indoor concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) is smaller and only matters during phases of the game when decisions are taken under high time stress. Exploiting temporal as well as spatial variation in outdoor pollution, we provide evidence suggesting a short-term and transitory effect of fine particulate matter on cognition.
Q50|Bringing Satellite-Based Air Quality Estimates Down to Earth|"We use state-of-the-art, satellite-based PM2.5 estimates to assess the extent to which the EPA's existing, monitor-based measurements over- or under-estimate true exposure to PM2.5 pollution. Treating satellite-based estimates as truth implies a substantial number of ""policy errors""—over-regulating areas that comply with air quality standards and under-regulating other areas that appear to violate standards. We investigate the health implications of these apparent errors and highlight the importance of accounting for prediction error in satellite-based estimates. Uncertainty in ""policy errors"" increases substantially when we account for these underlying prediction errors."
Q50|Are Consumers Attentive to Local Energy Costs? Evidence from the Appliance Market|We estimate whether consumers respond to local energy costs when purchasing appliances. Using a dataset from an appliance retailer, we compare demand responsiveness to a measure of energy costs that varies with local energy prices versus purchase prices. We strongly reject that consumers are unresponsive to local energy costs under a wide range of assumptions. These findings run counter to the popular wisdom, which motivates energy standards, that energy costs are a shrouded attribute. Capital investments are an important channel for electricity demand response and may explain some of the large differences between short and long run electricity price elasticities.
Q50|Heterogeneous (Mis-) Perceptions of Energy Costs: Implications for Measurement and Policy Design|Quantifying heterogeneity in consumers’ misperceptions of product costs is crucial for policy design. We illustrate this point in the energy context and the design of Pigouvian policies. We estimate non-parametric distributions of perceptions of energy costs in the U.S. appliance market using a revealed preference approach. We show that the average degree of misperception is misleading— while the largest share of consumers correctly perceives energy costs, a significant share undervalues them, and smaller shares either significantly overvalues or completely ignores them. We show that setting a tax based on mean misperception deviates substantially from the optimal tax that accounts for heterogeneous misperceptions. While correctly characterizing misperception is crucial for setting optimal Pigouvian taxes for externalities, it is less important for setting optimal standards. We find that standards can largely outperform taxes. Standards’ advantage is they reduce variance in energy operating costs relative to taxes, which internalizes distortionary effects from misperceptions.
Q50|Destructive Behavior, Judgment, and Economic Decision-making under Thermal Stress|Accumulating evidence indicates that environmental temperature substantially affects economic outcomes and violence, but the reasons for this linkage are not well understood. We systematically evaluate the effect of thermal stress on multiple dimensions of economic decisionmaking, judgment, and destructive behavior with 2,000 participants in Kenya and the US who were randomly assigned to different temperatures in a laboratory. We find that most dimensions of decision-making are unaffected by temperature. However, heat causes individuals to voluntarily destroy other participants’ assets, with more pronounced effects during a period of heightened political conflict in Kenya.
Q50|The Cost of a Carbon-Free Electricity System in the U.S|I calculate the cost of replacing all power stations in the U.S. using coal and gas by wind and solar power stations by 2050, leaving electric power generation in the U.S. carbon free. Allowing for the savings in the cost of fossil fuel arising from the replacement of fossil fuel plants this is roughly $55 billion annually. Allowing in addition for the fact that most fossil plants in the U.S. are already old and would have to be replaced before 2050 even if we were not to go fossil free, this annual cost is reduced to $23 billion.
Q50|Local labor impact of wind energy investment: an analysis of Portuguese municipalities|Investment in wind power has grown remarkably in the past decades in Portugal. Although economic development is an argument for investment incentive policies, little evidence exists as to their net impact on local-level unemployment. Using a panel of all 278 Portuguese mainland municipalities for the years 1997-2017, we assess the existence, distribution and duration of local level labor impacts of wind power investment. Our results show there are short term effects during the construction phase. We estimate a decrease of 0.05 percentage points in the total unemployment rate for each KW per capita installed. These effects are confined to unskilled labor and male workers. Further analysis of spatial interaction finds positive spatial spillovers for municipalities that are 30km or less away but not farther, implying workers are willing to commute but not migrate. We find no evidence of sustained effects or impact during the operations and maintenance phase, despite both short and long term impacts in municipalities' revenues.
Q50|Vintage differentiated regulations and plant survival: Evidence from coal-fired plants|This paper assesses the effect of environmental regulations on plant survival and emissions using data on the extent of vintage differentiation of regulations (VDR5) regarding air pollution emission limit values for existing and new coal-fired power plants. Focussing on NOx and SOx emissions, the paper applies survival analysis techniques on a sample of generating units across 31 OECD and non-member countries between 1962 and 2012.
Q50|Applying green public procurement to food supply and catering services:Case study in Latvia|Green public procurement (GPP) is a process whereby public and municipal authorities seek to procure goods and services with the lowest environmental impact throughout their entire life cycle, taking into account also the life cycle costs compared to products with the same primary function. GPP can reduce not only the environmental impact, but also promote social benefits and budget savings. The requirements for GPP and the procedure for its application in Latvia are determined by governmental regulations. That requires mandatory application of the GPP to seven groups of goods and services, among them food and catering services. In 2017, the share of total procurements that self reported application of GPP was 11.8% in financial expression, but in 2018 - 18.4%. In 2017, according to self reports 54% of all food product tenders and 79% catering services were marked as GPP tenders. In 2018 already 90% of all food product tenders and 99% catering services are marked as GPP tenders. However, to what extent we can rely on self reports? To evaluate application of GPP requirements for food products and catering services, we screened in total 106 tenders (73 tenders for the supply of food products and 33 for catering services), which were published from July 1, 2017 till July 1, 2018, comparing the tender documents with the governmental regulations. We found that the terms in the Technical Specifications and other tender documents were often unclear. The most common included criterion was requirement that the food products supplied may not contain or be produced from genetically modified organisms (97%). While the second most frequently used criterion is so called higher quality food (28%) e.g. certified as organic, national quality schemes or from integrated agriculture. However, only 4% of the tender documents gave higher priority exclusively for organic food compared to local quality schemes or integrated agriculture. Considering that organic foods are usually higher priced, it can be assumed that only in 4% of cases procurements result in delivering organic food. 18% of the tenders require foods from the national food quality scheme, and 16% of the tenders require products from either organic farming or integrated agriculture. In order to promote organic food, purchasers should more clearly require organic products.
Q50|Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Achziv marine reserve expansion considering the Barcelona Convention and the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive|In this paper we present a Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) of the Achziv Rocky reefs marine protected area (MPA) in Israel as a case study following the implementation of the international Barcelona Convention.The Marine Strategy Framework Directive requires that Member States and affiliates members achieve “Good Environmental Status” (GES) of marine ecosystems by 2020 including improvement of Marine Protected Area (MPA) networks in EU marine waters.EU guidance documents recommend using economic valuation and CBA to support environmental decision-making. We therefore propose the application of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) requirements in Israel, and its methodology as marine conservation guidelines by the year 2020.We reveal constraints of the Cost-Benefit-Analysis (CBA), appraising the Ecosystem Services Approach (ESA) and we show the relevance of MPA's economic analysis.We analyze these challenges with respect to Israel, an affiliate MSFD country that has not yet carried such CBA on MPAs. In this case study, we compare the current MPA situation with the expected positive outcome of MPA expansion.Our analysis shows that benefits from a marine reserve and its associated ecosystem services can largely exceed their protection costs, which should entice other organizations, from regional to governments, to follow MPA protection recommendations.
Q50|Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit|Digitalisierung bzw. digitale Transformation sowie Nachhaltigkeit zählen gegenwärtig zu den wichtigsten globalen Megatrends. Die zunehmende Digitalisierung bringt vielfältige positive Entwicklungen und zugleich auch zahlreiche negative Folgen im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit mit sich. Wie sind Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung dahingehend zu verorten? Die positiven und negativen Auswirkungen der Digitalisierung auf die Nachhaltigkeit werden im Rahmen einer Literaturanalyse und Interviewstudie erfasst und zusammengeführt. Concept Maps zur Visualisierung von Schlüsselthemen im Hinblick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit sowie eine Gegenüberstellung von Flüchen und Segen ermöglichen einen umfassenden Blick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit. Um ganzheitlich-nachhaltige Konzepte zu schaffen, sind umfassende Analysen und Bewertungen von grundlegenden digitalen Entwicklungen unerlässlich. Die digitale Transformation resultiert in einer Vielzahl positiver Auswirkungen, dennoch sind adäquate Rahmenlegungen, Maßnahmen und Bewertungen notwendig, um zu verhindern, dass exponentielle Technologieanpassungen die Transparenz und Resilienz des Gesamtsystems schwächen. Digitalisation, digital transformation and sustainability are currently among the most important global megatrends. Increasing digitalisation has many positive developments and at the same time numerous negative consequences in the context of a development towards sustainability. What is boon and bane of digitalisation in the context of a development towards sustainability? The positive and negative effects of digitisation on sustainability are noted and combined by means of a literature analysis and interview study. Concept maps of key themes are chosen for visualization and enable a comprehensive view of digitisation in the field of sustainable development. In order to create holistic sustainable concepts, comprehensive analyses and evaluations of fundamental digital developments are indispensable. Digital transformation results in a multitude of positive effects, yet adequate frameworks, measures and evaluations are needed to prevent exponential technology adaptations from weakening the transparency and resilience of the overall system.
Q50|Green Technology and Patents in the Presence of Green Consumers|We develop a theoretical framework to investigate the impact of patent policies and emission taxes on green innovation that reduces the emission output ratio, and on the emission level. In the absence of green consumers, the introduction of patents results in a paradox whereby increasing emission tax beyond a certain threshold leads to a discrete increase in the emission level, which may be avoided by reducing the patenting cost. In the presence of green consumers, this paradox is restricted to an intermediate range of tax rates, and at sufficiently high tax rates, reducing the patenting cost may increase the emission level. Also, higher emission taxes increase green investment only if the fraction of green consumers is sufficiently small, and the magnitude of this effect decreases as this fraction increases. Moreover, a stricter patentability requirement is only effective at reducing emissions if the fraction of green consumers is sufficiently small.
Q50|Local labor impact of wind energy investment: an analysis of Portuguese municipalities|Investment in wind power has grown remarkably in the past decades in Portugal. Although economic development is an argument for investment incentive policies, little evidence exists as to their net impact on local-level unemployment. Using a panel of all 278 Portuguese mainland municipalities for the years 1997-2017, we assess the existence, distribution and duration of local level labor impacts of wind power investment. Our results show there are short term effects during the construction phase. We estimate a decrease of 0.05 percentage points in the total unemployment rate for each KW per capita installed. These effects are confined to unskilled labor and male workers. Further analysis of spatial interaction fi nds positive spatial spillovers for municipalities that are 30km or less away but not farther, implying workers are willing to commute but not migrate. We find no evidence of sustained effects or impact during the operations and maintenance phase, despite both short and long term impacts in municipalities' revenues.
Q50|Environmental Quality and Monopoly Pricing|This paper investigates various aspects of a monopolist’s pricing and environmental quality choice, as two simultaneous decisions and with each as a separate decision, the other variable being exogenously fixed. Green quality is modeled as in Spence (1975), and the present analysis builds on his pioneering work. We contrast the private and the first-best socially optimal solutions. While the latter follows the intuitive property of assigning a higher price to higher quality, the former solution does so under a natural condition of log-supermodular demand. This condition is studied in some detail, and related to properties of an underlying utility function. We complete this characterization of optimal pricing by providing a counter-intuitive example where the two-dimensional interaction is such that the monopolist ends up charging a lower optimal price than the social planner, as well as producing a lower quality. Finally, we investigate respective sufficient conditions under which (i) the private and first-best solutions coincide, and (ii) either one is larger than the other.
Q50|Research for REGI Committee – Externalities of Cohesion Policy|The study investigates the effects of Cohesion Policy (CP) which occur in a country other than the one in which CP resources were actually spent. The study estimates that macroeconomic spillovers significantly contribute to the impact of CP. Spillovers directed to EU countries represent around 9% of the total annual CP expenditure. Other spillovers to Non-EU countries are around 8% of the CP expenditure. Macro and micro spillovers together arrive at 21% of the annual CP expenditure, 67% of which is distributed among EU countries. Around 20% of the CP expenditure can trigger sectoral spillover effects in the environment, transport and higher education sectors. The analysis demonstrates that externalities reinforce EU growth and competitiveness without CP deserting its convergence objective.
Q50|From fundamentals to financial assets: the evolution of understanding price formation in the EU ETS|Now in its third compliance period, we can look back at more than 12 years of existence of the emissions trading system (ETS) in the European Union. The focus of this paper is to review the empirical literature on price formation in the EU ETS. As a reoccurring concept, we draw on a simple theoretical model of price formation that we subsequently extend to accommodate three different strands of literature. First, we gather evidence based on empirical papers which look at the role of fundamental price drivers. Second, we review the event study literature, where political and regulatory uncertainty is the main topic. Third, we devote a major part to finance literature in this market. In every section, we pay special attention to the challenges that arise when empirically modeling allowance prices in this complex market. We emphasize that there is a need for more evidence and possibly alternative approaches due to the complex interplay of compliance and finance trading motives. As a result, the findings of this review provide important lessons about price formation in the EU ETS, which can also inform the design of such programs in other countries.
Q50|Do sustainable energy policies matter for reducing greenhouse gas emissions?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q50|Assessment of national waste generation in EU Member States’ efficiency|Waste generation and management may be considered as either a by-product of economic actions or even used as input to economic activity like energy recovery. Every country produces different amounts of municipal solid waste (MSW) and with different composition. This paper deals with the efficiency of 28 EU Member States for the years 2008, 2010 and 2012 by employing Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) and by using eight parameters, namely waste generation, employment rate, capital formation, GDP, population density and for the first time SOx, NOx and GHG emissions for the relevant countries. With these parameters six environmental production frameworks have been designed each with different inputs and outputs. The empirical analysis shows that overall the more efficient countries according to all frameworks include Belgium, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway. These results were then reviewed against the recycling rate of each country for the examined time periods. The recycling rate actually depicts the DEA results, namely more efficient countries seem to have a higher recycling rate too. Moreover the DEA efficiency results were contrasted to the overall treatment options used in the countries under consideration. Overall it is noticed that countries employing all four treatment options with high use of more sustainable ones and decrease in the use of landfill are the ones that also proved to be efficient according to DEA.
Q50|Mathematics vs. Statistics in tackling Environmental Economics uncertainty|In this paper the appropriate background in Mathematics and Statistics is considered in developing methods to investigate Risk Analysis problems associated with Environmental Economics uncertainty. New senses of uncertainty are introduced and a number of sources of uncertainty are discussed and presented. The causes of uncertainty are recognized helping to understand how they affect the adopted policies and how important their management is in any decision-making process. We show Mathematical Models formulate the problem and Statistical models offer possible solutions, restricting the underlying uncertainty, given the model and the error assumptions are correct. As uncertainty is always present we suggest ways on how to handle it.
Q50|Environment and Sustainable Development|The severity of environmental problems and their socio-economic effects are important research issues as pollution and damages are local or global externalities implying market failures when in most of the cases the sources of pollution do not consider the full cost (including the related social costs) caused to others by their actions. Managing the various environmental problems and their associated implications is of interest to decision makers. Estimates of damage costs and a variety of other issues connected to changes in environmental quality and having to do with the importance of uncertainty and risk aversion are essential issues open to discussion. Furthermore, setting up competent policies requires cautious consideration of each source of pollution. For this reason, various features in the use of sufficient policies to cope with the various environmental problems, like people’s awareness of environmental use and non-use values, institutional frameworks and similar concerns have to be considered. Policies to handle pollution and the related degradation have to take into account both the specific economic conditions as well as the structure of the associated sectors of each region.
Q50|An environmentally sustainable global economy. A coopetitive model|This paper proposes a model representing a global economy which aims to become environmentally sustainable. The model looks both at the production side and the consumption side of the economy. Regarding the production side, the suggested model considers investment and innovation in climate technologies, whereas on the side of the consumption it takes into account economic and policy instruments to change the patterns of consumption of the households. The model follows a game theory approach and applies a theoretical framework à la Cournot. The results of the paper are the following: the model provides win-win solutions, namely strategic situations in which each country takes advantages by cooperating and competing at the same time within the global economy, and where each country gets a positive return. In fact, the model shows the convenience for each country to cooperate and suggests the implementation of policies in order to satisfy the basic requirements of 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in terms of production, consumption and climate change.
Q50|Reporting the natural environmental hazards occurrences and fatalities over the last century|This paper presents the occurrences and fatalities of natural environmental hazards drawing an initial picture of concentration, if there is any. For that reason, the authors use aggregate regional tables as well as map visualizations created in R- studio. As it is shown, there appears to be a space concentration on the natural environmental hazards that need to be deeply examined with the use of advanced econometric techniques.
Q50|Diversité ethnique et déforestation dans les pays en développement: identification des principaux canaux<BR>[Ethnic diversity and deforestation in developing countries: identifying the transmission channels]|We examine the direct and indirect relationship between ethnic diversity and deforestation for a group of developing countries over a period from 2001 to 2015. We measure deforestation through loss of forest cover and ethnic diversity through ethnic (religious) fractionalization and polarization. We have identified three channels through which ethnic diversity affects the environment, namely property rights, corruption and conflicts that are often used in regressions of deforestation. Using the SURE model, we found a positive indirect total link between ethnic fractionalization and deforestation through the specified channels, while the indirect total effect of ethnic polarization is negative. However, we have a total effect (indirect total effect + direct effect) positive of the two indices (polarization and fractionalization) on deforestation. In addition, the total effect of ethnic polarization is greater than that of ethnic fractionalization. Robustness analyzes were carried out and the results obtained are robust compared to the basic specifications.
Q50|Exploring the EMEP Input-Output model of air pollution|The primary objective of this paper is the structural analysis of source-receptor air pollution problems in the EU region. Two views are provided for the analysis: an emission-driven view and a deposition-driven view. Different visual schemes are used to reproduce the global pollution network and identify the biggest sources and sinks of pollution. Visual modelling helps to understand the linkages and interconnections in the transboundary pollution network. Our interactive outputs give the options to zoom in to specific areas of the global source-receptor air pollution scheme and highlight the top emitters or receptors of pollution. Ranking of countries in decreasing order of pollution responsibility and/or vulnerability using graph metrics is a main result. Data sources are emissions-depositions (or source-receptor) tables of air pollutants, available online from the data repository of the European Monitoring and Evaluation Program (EMEP) of the Long-Range Transmission of Air Pollutants in Europe. In our computer-based visual analysis, we employ solely open software.
Q50|Space and the Environment: An Introduction to the Special Issue|We have two objectives in this special issue. First, we bring together in one place, original research that sheds light on the ways in which the notion of “space” affects the conceptualization of natural resource and environmental problems. Second, given this conceptualization, we show how rigorous modeling of natural resource and environmental problems that explicitly accounts for space overcomes some of the shortcomings of non-spatial analysis. Following this introductory paper, there are six additional papers in this issue. Each of these papers discusses a particular research question at the interface of what we call “space and the environment.”
Q50|Environmental regulation and economic cycles|This paper considers economic cycles that do not depend on the exogenous economic actions. More precisely, the paper develops a positive model of government behavior in order to define the intertemporal fiscal policies that are optimal for a country, determining the optimal level of the budget and the optimal level of the rate of environmental quality, as well. For this purpose, we setup an optimal control model involving the intertemporal subsidy strategies for an authoritarian (like a central European) government. It will be shown - applying the Hopf bifurcation theorem - that cyclical strategy, i.e. waves of regulation, environmental subsidies alternating with deregulation, cuts in social programmes, etc., may be optimal strategies. In this paper we propose an extremely simple optimal control model concerning budget surplus and environmental subsidies. We investigate the cyclical subsiding policies applying one bifurcation theorem. A number of propositions are stated during the solution process.
Q50|Subject Pools and Deception in Agricultural and Resource Economics Experiments|Abstract The use of student subjects and deception in experiments are two controversial issues that often raise concerns among editors and reviewers, which might prevent quality research from being published in agricultural and resource economics (ARE) journals. We provide a self-contained methodological discussion of these issues. We argue that field professionals are the most appropriate subjects for questions related to policy or measurement, and students are the most appropriate subjects for scientific research questions closely tied to economic theory. Active deception, where subjects are provided with explicitly misleading information, has been avoided in the mainstream economics discipline because it can lead to a loss of experimental control, lead to subject selection bias, and impose negative externalities on other researchers. Disciplinary ARE journals may want to abide by these norms against deception to maintain credibility. Interdisciplinary ARE journals may have more flexibility, although it is important to provide guidelines to avoid too much reviewer-specific variation in standards. For ARE researchers, we suggest employing a deception-free experimental design whenever possible because we know of no field in which deception is encouraged.
Q50|An efficient and implementable auction for environmental rights|This article proposes a simple and efficient auction design to allocate environmental rights, such as tradable pollution permits. We show that if the auctioneer limits the number of bids that each buyer submitsâ€”coupled with a simple ex-post supply adjustment ruleâ€”then truthful bidding is obtained. Consequently, the uniform-price auction becomes efficient and revenue superior to conventional uniform-price auctions that are currently observed in pollution markets.
Q50|Fostering Green Finance for Sustainable Development in Asia|Placing the Asian economies onto a sustainable development pathway requires an unprecedented shift in investment away from greenhouse gas, fossil fuel, and natural resource intensive industries towards more resource efficient technologies and business models. The financial sector will have to play a central role in this ‘green transformation’. This study discusses the need for greening the financial system and the role of financial governance. It reviews the state of green lending and investment in Asia and provides an overview of green financial governance initiatives across Asia. It also identifies market innovations to increase green finance in Asia, barriers to green investments, and financial policy and highlights priority areas for policy makers.
Q50|Financing of Sustainability Investments at Green Key Awarded Hotels in Mu?la|As in all other areas, sustainability concept has become crucial in tourism sector. The Green Key award represents standard of excellence in the field of environmental and sustainable responsibility within the tourism industry. This eco-label is given to the tourism establishments according to the strict criteria determined by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). These criteria include energy, water, waste and environmental management. The Green Key Award system is applied in 56 countries, more than 2600 tourism establishments all over the World. In 2017, Turkey, as one of the favourite tourism destination, is ranked as the 8th among the 56 countries with 86 tourism establishments having the Green Key award. Mu?la province, as the 3rd most popular tourist destination in Turkey, attracts millions of domestic and foreign visitors every year with its natural and historical spots in Fethiye, Marmaris and Bodrum. There are 17 hotels taking the Green Key award in this city. This study is about financing of sustainability investments at tourism sector in Mu?la. For this purpose, a research with Qualitative Interviewing Technique will be conducted in Hotels having Green Key award in Mu?la. The aim of this study is to examine the sustainability activities in tourism sector and explore the sources of finance for these activities. In addition, consciousness about special resource and incentives will be analysed.
Q50|The Revealed Preference Methods in Economic Valuation of Environmental Goods: A Review|The environmental goods and services have often been neglected in crucial decisions affecting the environment mainly because the difficulty in estimating their economic value, since we are dealing with non-market goods and, thus, without a price associated. Nevertheless, the inexistence of prices does not necessarily mean these goods have no value. The environment is a key element in today's society that seeks to be as sustainable as possible, where the environmental assets have both use and non-use values. To estimate the use value, researchers may apply the revealed preference methods. This paper provides a theoretical review of the main concepts and methodologies on the economic valuation of the environment, with particular emphasis on the revealed preference techniques. Based on a detailed literature review, this study concludes that, despite some inherent limitations, the revealed preference methodologies are valuable tools for the economic evaluation of the environment. The main purpose of this study is to contribute to an increased theoretical information on the economic valuation of environmental assets, allowing researchers and policy makers to improve future decisions regarding the environment.
Q50|The Environmental Kuznets Curve in Small Geographies|Finding a theoretical explanation of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) has been difficult. Given that environmental quality improves as income and consumption increase, ceteris paribus, there must be an increase in remediation/abatement activity. In this paper, we provide theoretical conditions for an existence of a locality-based EKC when both output and abatement expenditures are increasing in income. We validate these predictions empirically using a detailed firm-level dataset in which environmental policies are uniform across locations. We also show that firms engaging in abatement activity tend to locate near polluting firms while income also plays a significant role in location choice.
Q50|Developing a shared environmental responsibility principle for distributing cost of restoring marine habitats destroyed by industrial harbors|For decades, industrial harbor expansion has been destroying coastal marine ecosystems. Many estuaries are sites for industrial harbors and critical fish nursery habitat. Considering fish population decreases and the global biodiversity crisis, restoring these habitats is justified and supported by international institutions. However, restoration programs can be prohibitively costly, particularly when considering the Polluter Pays Principle. While harbors destroy nurseries, at the same time they generate benefits for society and contribute to the public interest. This raises questions of who is responsible for environmental degradation and who can afford environmental restoration costs? One way to allocate restoration costs is in proportion of those who have benefitted from harbor activities. This paper addresses these questions by calculating burden-sharing scenarios with inputoutput matrix equations. These scenarios are based on a shared producer and consumer responsibility approach to distribute restoration costs among stakeholders that use, either directly or indirectly, harbor services. The scenarios are applied to the Seine estuary, France, and calculated as a function of sectorial value-added as well as direct and indirect economic linkages between economic sectors and harbor activities. Economic linkages with final consumers (e.g. households) are also included. The shared environmental responsibility calculation developed in this paper shares restoration costs for previously damaged marine habitats between a wide-range of economic agents, thereby preventing industrial harbors from bearing expensive restoration costs alone, and making restoration more likely.
Q50|And Then He Wasn't a She: Climate Change and Green Transitions in an Agent-Based Integrated Assessment Model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such market-based instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins.
Q50|And then he wasn't a she : Climate change and green transitions in an agent-based integrated assessment model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such marketbased instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins.
Q50|Fostering green investments and tackling climate-related financial risks: Which role for macroprudential policies?|While there is a growing debate among researchers and practitioners on the possible role of central banks and financial regulators in supporting a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy, the information on which macroprudential instruments could be used for reaching the “green structural change” is still quite limited. Moreover, the achievement of climate goals is still affected by the so-called “green finance gap”. This paper addresses these issues by proposing a critical review of existing and novel prudential approaches to incentivizing the decarbonization of banks' balance sheets and aligning finance with sustainable growth and development objectives. The analysis carried out in the paper allows understanding of under which conditions macroprudential policy could tackle climate change and promote green lending, while also containing climate-related financial risks.
Q50|On the Effects of Linking Voluntary Cap-and-Trade Systems for CO2 Emissions|Linkage of cap-and-trade systems is typically advocated by economists on a general analogy with the beneficial linking of free-trade areas and on the specific grounds that linkage will ensure cost effectiveness among the linked jurisdictions. An appropriate and widely accepted specification for the damages of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions within a relatively short (say 5-10 year) period is that marginal damages for each jurisdiction are constant (although they can differ among jurisdictions). With this defensible assumption, the analysis is significantly clarified and yields simple closed-form expressions for all CO2 permit prices. Some implications for linked and unlinked voluntary CO2 cap-and-trade systems are derived and discussed.
Q50|Continuous vs Discrete Time Modelling in Growth and Business Cycle Theory|Economists model time as continuous or discrete. For long, either alternative has brought about relevant economic issues, from the implementation of the basic Solow and Ramsey models of growth and the business cycle, towards the issue of equilibrium indeterminacy and endogenous cycles. In this paper, we introduce to some of those relevant issues in economic dynamics. First, we describe a baseline continuous vs discrete time modelling setting relevant for questions in growth and business cycle theory. Then we turn to the issue of local indeterminacy in a canonical model of economic growth with a pollution externality whose size is related to the model period. Finally, we propose a growth model with delays to show that a discrete time representation implicitly imposes a particular form of time–to–build to the continuous time representation. Our approach suggests that the recent literature on continuous time models with delays should help to bridge the gap between continuous and discrete time representations in economic dynamics.
Q50|Environmental Quality and Monopoly Pricing|This paper investigates various aspects of a monopolist’s pricing and environmental quality choice, as two simultaneous decisions and with each as a separate decision, the other variable being exogenously fixed. Green quality is modeled as in Spence (1975), and the present analysis builds on his pioneering work. We contrast the private and the first-best socially optimal solutions. While the latter follows the intuitive property of assigning a higher price to higher quality, the former solution does so under a natural condition of log-supermodular demand. This condition is studied in some detail, and related to properties of an underlying utilty function. We complete this characterization of optimal pricing by providing two different counter-intuitive examples where the two-dimensional interaction is such that the monopolist ends up charging a lower optimal price than the social planner, as well as producing a lower quality. Finally, we investigate respective sufficient conditions under which (i) the private and first-best solutions coincide, and (ii) the two-dimensional problem reduces to a one-dimensional problem where the firm picks a single quality-price ratio.
Q50|Dématérialiser la nature pour la faire entrer dans la sphère du marché|Cela fait longtemps que la nature est entrée dans le processus capitaliste dans ses dimensions matérielles, terre, ressources agricoles et minières, sous la forme de biens tangibles donc. Depuis quelques décennies, un phénomène nouveau apparaît. Des dimensions de la nature sont requalifiées en information, en services et en actifs financiers pour pouvoir à leur tour faire l’objet d’échanges marchands. Autrement dit une nouvelle classe de marchandises fictives apparaît (Karl Polanyi (1944)). Plutôt que de les nommer « immatérielles », je préfère parler de dématérialisation, car il s’agit d’un processus institutionnel, juridique et politique construit et voulu, et non d’une immanence. Analysant le cas des services écosystémiques, cet article propose une catégorisation permettant de comprendre comment l’institution marchande remodèle ainsi de grands pans de la nature, en trois grands moments. Le premier est celui de la qualification de la marchandise, qui vise à en définir les contours précis, la doter d’une mesure et de droits de propriété. Le deuxième processus est celui de l’évaluation, où l’objet considéré acquiert une valeur monétaire de référence. On parle quelquefois de monétisation. Le troisième et dernier moment de la création d’une marchandise fictive est celui de la valorisation. Il s’agit de dispositifs contractuels et/ou marchands qui transforment les valeurs en prix. Ce n’est qu’à cette ultime étape que de la valeur est effectivement créée, c’est-à-dire du capital. Malgré le caractère apparemment immatériel de ces nouvelles marchandises, les conséquences de leur création sur la nature et les relations que nous entretenons avec elle sont tout à fait matérielles.
Q50|Some Links between Sustainability and Well-Being|Sustainability aims to ensure that people live their lives without compromising the well-being of future generations. Increasing well-being by providing more goods and services to consume is a sustainability challenge. There are two opposing schools of thought on the consumption of natural resources: strong sustainability and weak sustainability. Proponents of strong sustainability emphasize the preservation of natural capital in each period because they argue that it cannot be replaced with any other type of capital. By contrast, weak sustainability scholars argue that natural resource can be consumed to build other forms of capital in which case sustainability requires that the aggregated monetised value of all capital stocks is non-declining or preferably increasing over the time. In this paper, we propose to adopt a balanced approach instead of taking either of these extreme positions where critical natural capital (CNC) limits are defined by strong sustainability and, within that limit, substitutability between various types of capital is allowed for economic efficiency and growth in total wealth. In such frameworks, weak sustainability indicates the minimum sustainability requirement for an economy in which all types of capitals are substitutable under the limits of CNC.
Q50|Information leverage: The adoption of clean cooking fuel in Bhutan|The outcome of household choice depends on the private information available to an agent, particularly in terms of costs and benefits. This study examines the role of information in the adoption of clean cooking fuel in Bhutan. We use a rural subsample of nationally representative data from the 2012 Bhutan Living Standard Survey (BLSS) conducted in all twenty districts. We estimate a bivariate probit model to control for the potentially endogenous information variable. The results indicate that households that have access to information are approximately 39% more likely to adopt clean cooking fuel. Similarly, households are 49% less likely to adopt dirty fuel (firewood) when exposed to information. Other factors such as education, the electricity supply, access to liquidity and the distance to the market are important factors that contribute to adopting clean cooking fuel. The results also show that the effect of information varies depending on the level of education of the household heads, thus highlighting the importance of accounting for the level of education of information recipients when designing a similar information provision.
Q50|Seemingly Unrelated Interventions:Environmental Management Systems in the Workplace and Energy Conservation Behaviors at Home|To reduce their environmental impacts, a growing number of organizations worldwide have implemented environmental management systems (EMSs). In these organizations, energy conservation activities become usual behaviors for employees; thus, we hypothesize that employees continue such energy conservation behaviors at home. This hypothesis is supported by data from surveys of individuals in Japan. Specifically, we find that the probability of engaging in energy conservation practices at home is higher and that expenditures on electricity use are lower for individuals who work in organizations that implement EMSs than for individuals who do not work in organizations with EMSs. Our results suggest that beyond the original purpose of helping organizations reduce their environmental impacts, EMSs work as an intervention to promote household energy conservation.
Q50|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
Q50|Equity and the willingness to pay for green electricity in Germany|The production of electricity on the basis of renewable energy technologies is a classic example of an impure public good. It is often discriminatively financed by industrial and household consumers, such as in Germany, where the energy-intensive sector benefits from a far-reaching exemption rule, while all other electricity consumers are forced to bear a higher burden. Based on randomized information treatments in a stated-choice experiment among about 11,000 German households, we explore whether this coercive payment rule affects households' willingness-to-pay (WTP) for green electricity. Our central result is that reducing inequity by abolishing the exemption for the energyintensive industry raises households' WTP substantially.
Q50|Heterogeneous preferences and the individual change to alternative electricity tariffs|Based on data from a large-scale computer-based survey among more than 3700 German citizens, this paper empirically examines the determinants of the general change of electricity tariffs and the specific change to green tariffs. Our econometric analysis with binary probit and multinomial logit models reveals a strong relevance of behavioral factors and individual values. For example, patience (which is measured by an incentivized experiment that was included in the survey) is significantly positively correlated with general changes to alternative electricity tariffs. Furthermore, social preferences (also measured by an incentivized experiment) and trust have an even stronger significantly positive effect on the specific change to green electricity tariffs. Our estimation results also imply an important role of political identification, i.e. citizens with a left-wing orientation significantly more often switch an electricity tariff and an ecological political orientation has a strong significantly positive effect on the change to a green electricity tariff. Furthermore, several socio-demographic and socio-economic variables like age, gender, or household income are also relevant. The empirical analysis thus provides new explanation patterns for the phenome-non that only a small number of households regularly change their electricity tariff and specifically to green tariffs, although they have high stated preferences for such changes. Our insights suggest several directions for policy, but also for electricity providers, to in-crease these switching rates. For example, the high importance of trust attitudes for the change to green electricity tariffs suggests a transparency initiative of electricity providers to decrease reservations against green power.
Q50|Feldstein meets George: Land rent taxation and socially optimal allocation in economies with environmental externality|We consider an overlapping generations (OLG) economy with land as a fixed factor of production and an environmental externality on production in which tax revenue from land rent and/or from other schemes such as labor income, capital income, and production taxation can be used for environmental protection through investment in emission mitigation. We show that, for any given target of stationary stock of pollution, the land rent taxation scheme leads to a higher steady state capital accumulation than the other schemes, and hence the steady state consumption of agents when young under this scheme is also higher than under the others. In addition, under an ambitious mitigation target when the efficiency of the mitigation technology is relatively high compared to the dirtiness of production, the land rent taxation also provides a higher steady state consumption when old, resulting in higher social welfare, than the others. In the second part of the paper, we propose a period-by-periodbalanced budget policy, which includes land rent and capital income taxes with intergenerational transfers, to decentralize the socially optimal allocation during the transitional phase to the social planner's steady state.
Q50|Monetary policy under climate change|We study monetary policy under climate change in order to answer the question of whether monetary policy should take into account the expected impacts of climate change. The setup is a new Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of a closed economy in which a climate module that interacts with the economy has been incorporated, and the monetary authorities follow a Taylor rule for the nominal interest rate. The model is solved numerically using common parameter values and fiscal data from the euro area. Our results, which are robust to a large number of sensitivity checks, suggest non-trivial implications for the conduct of monetary policy.
Q50|On the effects of linking voluntary cap-and-trade systems for CO2 emissions|Linkage of cap-and-trade systems is typically advocated by economists on a general analogy with the beneficial linking of free-trade areas and on the specific grounds that linkage will ensure cost effectiveness among the linked jurisdictions. An appropriate and widely accepted specification for the damages of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions within a relatively short (say 5-10 year) period is that marginal damages for each jurisdiction are constant (although they can differ among jurisdictions). With this defensible assumption, the analysis is significantly clarified and yields simple closedform expressions for all CO2 permit prices. Some implications for linked and unlinked voluntary CO2 cap-and-trade systems are derived and discussed.
Q50|Reversible Environmental Catastrophes with Disconnected Generations|We study environmental policy in an economy-ecology model featuring multiple deterministic stable steady-state ecological equilibria. The economy-ecology does not settle in either of the deterministic steady states as the environmental system is hit by random shocks. Individual live for two periods and derive utility from the (stochastic) quality of the environment. They feature warm-glow preferences and therefore will engage in private abatement in order to slightly influence the stochastic process governing environmental quality. The government may also conduct abatement activities or introduce environmental taxes. We solve for the market equilibrium abstracting from public abatement and taxes and show that the ecological process may get stuck for extended periods of time fluctuating around the heavily polluted (low quality) deterministic steady state. These events are called environmental catastrophes. They are not irreversible, however, as the system typically switches back to the basin of attraction associated with the good (high quality) deterministic steady state. The paper also compares the stationary distributions for environmental quality and individuals’ welfare arising under the unmanaged economy and in the first-best social optimum.
Q50|Prices versus Quantities Reassessed|“Prices versus quantities” (Weitzman 1974), a hugely influential paper, is widely cited (and taught) in current debates about the best policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The paper’s criterion for ranking policies suggests that technological uncertainty favors taxes over cap and trade. Weitzman models a flow pollutant, but greenhouse gases are persistent. Stock pollutants require a fundamental change in the ranking criterion. Innovations’ persistence and their gradual diffusion both favor the use of cap and trade. Numerical results show that the case for cap and trade as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is stronger than widely believed.
Q50|Emisiones de Gases Efecto Invernadero y Sectores Clave|El incremento de la temperatura en los últimos cincuenta años ha tenido serios efectos sobre la economía, por lo cual es necesario tomar medidas de mitigación y/o adaptación para atenuar sus efectos. En el presente trabajo se realiza un cálculo de multiplicadores de las emisiones, usando la técnica de insumo producto, que sirve como otro instrumento más para la evaluación y análisis de las diferentes alternativas de políticas de mitigación. Los multiplicadores estimados permiten, además de observar cuales son los sectores con mayor efecto sobre las emisiones de GEI, realizar una caracterización de las políticas más eficientes sobre cada uno de los sectores.
Q50|Temperature, Climate Change, and Mental Health: Evidence from the Spectrum of Mental Health Outcomes|This paper characterizes the link between ambient temperatures and a broad set of mental health measures. We find that the realization of low temperatures leads to fewer self-reported days of poor mental health, fewer mental-health related emergency department visits, and fewer suicides. Conversely, exposure to more hot days is associated with more days of self-reported poor mental health, more mental health-related emergency department visits, and higher rates of suicide. We consider the efficacy of a number of potential mitigating factors including access to mental health services and residential penetration of air conditioning, among others. We find that the identified relationship is insensitive to all considered modulating factors and has not moderated over time, suggesting a lack of effective adaptation. We offer evidence for sleep quality as the mechanism by which temperatures impact mental health and discuss the implications of our findings in light of climate change.
Q50|Hysteresis and the Welfare Effect of Corrective Policies: Theory and Evidence from an Energy-Saving Program|"A growing body of evidence documents that policies can affect household behaviors persistently, even if they are no longer in place. This paper studies the importance of such ""hysteresis"" – the failure of an effect to reverse itself as its underlying cause is reversed – for the welfare evaluation of corrective policies. First, we introduce hysteresis into the textbook framework used to derive canonical sufficient statistics formulas for the welfare effect of corrective policies. We then derive new formulas allowing for hysteresis. We show that, under certain conditions, the persistent effect of a short-run (i.e., temporary) policy becomes a new key statistic for evaluating the welfare effect of such a policy, and also of a long-run (i.e., permanent) version of a similar policy. Second, we estimate the persistent effect of a short-run policy, for which we argue that these conditions are met, in a policy-relevant context: residential electricity use in a developing country setting. We estimate that about half of the dramatic short-run reductions in residential electricity use induced by a 9-month-long policy that was imposed on millions of Brazilian households in 2001 persisted for at least 12 years after the policy ended. Finally, we combine our estimates with our framework to illustrate the implications that hysteresis can have for the welfare evaluation of corrective policies."
Q50|Being Stranded on the Carbon Bubble? Climate Policy Risk and the Pricing of Bank Loans|Does neglecting the possibility that fossil fuel reserves become “stranded” result in a “carbon bubble”, i.e., an overvaluation of fossil fuel firms? To address this question, we study whether banks price the climate policy risk. We hand collect global data on corporate fossil fuel reserves, match it with syndicated loans, and subsequently compare the loan rate charged to fossil fuel firms — along their climate policy exposure — to non-fossil fuel firms. We find that before 2015 banks did not price climate policy risk. After 2015, however, the risk is priced, especially for firms holding more fossil fuel reserves. We also provide some evidence that “green banks” charge marginally higher loan rates to fossil fuel firms.
Q50|Corporate Social Responsibility and workers' motivation at the industry equilibrium|We consider an industry in which firms compete at two levels, the labor market and the product market. On the labor market two types of workers co-exist, socially responsible or not. Firms may strategically use CSR investments in order to screen and to elicit more effort from responsible workers. By doing so, virtuous firms lower their production costs and display a competitive advantage on the product market. As a consequence, CSR strategies by firms shape the toughness of competition on that market. In turn, incentives that firms have to invest in CSR are dampened when competition becomes harsher. Hence, we identify a twofold relationship between CSR and competition. Due to feedback effects on the competitive pressure, an increase in workers' social awareness may reduce the overall level of CSR. We also show that an exogenous increase of competition may affect positively or negatively the corporate social performance depending on the proportion of responsible workers.
Q50|Exposure to floods, climate change, and poverty in Vietnam|With 70% of its population living in coastal areas and low-lying deltas, Vietnam is highly exposed to riverine and coastal flooding. This paper conducts a “stress-test” and examines the exposure of the population and poor people in particular to current and future flooding in Vietnam and specifically in Ho Chi Minh City. We develop new high-resolution flood hazard maps at 90 m horizontal resolution, and combine this with spatially-explicit socioeconomic data on poverty at the country and city level, two datasets often kept separate. The national-level analysis finds that a third of today’s population is already exposed to a flood, which occurs once every 25 years, assuming no protection. For the same return period flood under current socioeconomic conditions, climate change may increase the number exposed to 38 to 46% of the population (an increase of 13–27% above current exposure), depending on the severity of sea level rise. While poor districts are not found to be more exposed to floods at the national level, the city-level analysis of Ho Chi Minh City provides evidence that slum areas are more exposed than other urban areas. The results of this paper provide an estimate of the potential exposure under climate change, including for poor people, and can provide input on where to locate future investments in flood risk management.
Q50|Households and heat stress: estimating the distributional consequences of climate change|Recent economic research documents a range of adverse welfare consequences from extreme heat stress, including health, labor productivity, and direct consumption disutility impacts. Without rapid adaptation, climate change will increase the burden of heat stress experienced by much of the world?s population in the coming decades. What will the distributional consequences of this added heat stress be, and how might this affect optimal climate policy? Using detailed survey data of household wealth in 690,745 households across 52 countries, this paper finds evidence suggesting that the welfare impacts of added heat stress caused by climate change may be regressive. Specifically, the analysis finds that poorer households tend to be located in hotter locations across and within countries, and poorer individuals are more likely to work in occupations with greater exposure to the elements not only across but also within countries. These findings?combined with the fact that current social cost of carbon estimates do not include climate damages arising from the productivity impacts of heat stress?suggest that optimal climate policy, especially when allowing for declining marginal utility of consumption, involves more stringent abatement than currently suggested, and that redistributive adaptation policies may be required to reduce the mechanical inequities in welfare impacts arising from climate change.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q50|The multifaceted relationship between environmental risks and poverty: new insights from Vietnam|Despite complex interlinkages, insights into the multifaceted relationship between environmental risks and poverty can be gained through an analysis of different risks across space, time and scale within a single context using consistent methods. Combining geo-spatial data on eight environmental risks and household survey data from 2010–2014 for the case study of Vietnam, this paper shows: (i) at the district level, the incidence of poverty is higher in high risk areas, (ii) at the household level, poorer households face higher environmental risks, (iii) for some risks the relationship with household-level consumption varies between rural and urban areas, and (iv) environmental risks explain consumption differences between households, but less so changes over time. While altogether these analyses cannot establish a causal relationship between environmental risks and poverty, they do indicate that Vietnam's poor are disproportionally exposed. Given growing pressures due to climate change, addressing such risks should be a focus of poverty reduction efforts.
Q50|Behavioral anomalies and energy-related individual choices: the role of status-quo bias|The literature on the energy-efficiency gap discusses the status-quo bias as a behavioral anomaly that potentially increases the energy consumption of a household through at least three channels: (1) by making consumers keep their energy-using durables as long as possible, until wearout forces them to replace their equipment (2) by making consumers choose new energy-using durables that resemble the existent ones that need replacement, and (3) by making consumers overuse appliances in an attempt to mentally amortize the initial investment cost. The results presented in this study are an attempt to empirically investigate the extent to which the presence of a bias towards the status quo is linked to residential electricity consumption through two out of the above mentioned three channels: non-replacement of old appliances and overuse of appliances. Using data from a large household survey conducted in three European countries, we find that our measure of status-quo bias is a significant predictor of both the age of home appliances as well as the level of consumption of energy services of a household. The tendency of status-quo biased individuals to keep their appliances longer and to use them more intensely is also reflected in the total electricity consumption of their households, which is found to be around 5.7% higher than for households of non-biased individuals. This research thus provides some first empirical evidence that the status-quo bias has the potential to create a substantial barrier to increasing residential energy efficiency. Our findings prompt policy makers to design instruments that take this barrier into account.
Q50|The impact of green preferences on the relevance of history versus expectations|In an OLG model with multiple steady states we analyse the impact of endogenous environmental policies on the relevance of history and expectations for the equilibrium selection. In a polluting regime environmental preferences cause an increasing energy tax which raises the risk that the economy transits to the inferior equilibrium under pessimistic expectations. However, higher environmental preferences imply an earlier switch to the clean energy regime. Then, the conflict between production and environmental preferences is resolved and the prospects to select the superior equilibrium improve, since positive expectations become more relevant. In an empirical analysis we find that people with environmental preferences tend to have more optimistic expectations about economic development. Using these findings to analyse the steady state dynamics implies that agents with environmental preferences support higher energy taxes and switch faster to clean production. Due to their optimism, the likelihood to reach the superior stable steady state increases.
Q50|Waste Recycling - Possible Solutions for the Romanian Challenges|Local authorities’ corruption, garbage companies’ violation of laws, the lack of a mandatory waste collection infrastructure and the disinterest of part of the population for environmental protection are the reasons for recycling only 3% of municipal waste in Romania. A report from the European Environment Agency shows that our country is a quaint for the recovery of waste. The first part of the paper tries to present the state of recycle in Romania and the reasons why Romania is in the last place in Europe to recycle. At the end of the paper, as conclusions, are presented some possible solutions for the Romanian recycling challenges.
Q50|And then He wasn't a She : Climate change and green transitions in an agent-based model integrated assessment model|In this work, we employ an agent-based integrated assessment model to study the likelihood of transition to green, sustainable growth in presence of climate damages. The model comprises heterogeneous fossil-fuel and renewable plants, capital- and consumption-good firms and a climate box linking greenhouse gasses emission to temperature dynamics and microeconomic climate shocks affecting labour productivity and energy demand of firms. Simulation results show that the economy possesses two statistical equilibria: a carbon-intensive lock-in and a sustainable growth path characterized by better macroeconomic performances. Once climate damages are accounted for, the likelihood of a green transition depends on the damage function employed. In particular, aggregate and quadratic damage functions overlook the impact of climate change on the transition to sustainability; to the contrary, more realistic micro-level damages are found to deeply influence the chances of a transition. Finally, we run a series of policy experiments on carbon (fossil fuel) taxes and green subsidies. We find that the effectiveness of such marketbased instruments depends on the different channels climate change affects the economy through, and complementary policies might be required to avoid carbon-intensive lock-ins. Classification-JEL : C63, Q40, Q50, Q54 Keywords : Climate change, agent-based models, transitions, energy policy, growth
Q50|Contract farming, productivity and fertilizer usage: Empirical evidence from specialty crop production| This study investigates the impact of contract farming (CF) in baby corn production on yield, irrigation costs, fertilizer costs and usage of chemical fertilizer. We find that adoption of CF by baby corn smallholders, after controlling for characteristics of both control and treatment groups, leads to higher yields and lower spending on fertilizers and irrigation. Additionally, CF in baby corn farming leads to a reduction in the use of chemical fertilizers (Urea and DAP). Thus, CF intervention benefits the livelihood of smallholders, reduces environmental degradation and reduces stress on groundwater without compromising yield.
Q50|"Contemporary Frontier Transformation for Inclusive Growth: The Dual Role of ""Smart"" Competitiveness Factors"|"Objective - This paper aims to contribute to inclusive development literature by empirically verifying that some ""smart"" or ""knowledge-and innovation-related"" competitiveness enhancing factors, besides raising competitiveness and growth, enable inclusiveness and sustainability. Methodology/Technique - The methodology used includes making ranks of frontier, advanced countries based on World Economic Forum data regarding competitive quantities and qualities of smart factors and growth and inclusive and sustainable outcomes. Then, a Spearman's rank correlation analysis is used to determine the similarities between each factor rank and each outcome rank. Findings - The smart factors show a significant relationship with both growth and inclusiveness/sustainability outcomes; this may be a target for use as policy instruments to promote both growth and inclusiveness. The study found that higher levels of business-sophistication and network-related training, access and use of existing-technology, and ICT utilization factors contribute to higher levels of growth and also infer higher levels of employment, intergeneration eco-adjusted savings and lower levels of inequality, poverty and carbon intensity. Novelty - Given that current government and international organization policies aimed at improving competitiveness/growth vis-à-vis inclusiveness/sustainability remain separated, the results of this study may assist in improving the collaboration between these two objectives. The policy implications of this study include: certain dual competitive-inclusive enhancing policies can be suitably designed and targeted to uplift smart elements and the acceleration of inclusiveness and sustainability alongside the competitiveness-growth nexus. Further, developing countries may learn to leapfrog the development frontier without developing competitiveness and inclusiveness/sustainability separately, but rather each at a time."
Q50|Green industrial path development in different types of regions|As response to environmental challenges such as global warming and the extinction of species sustainable regional development has become a key policy objective. Regions, however, vary in their preconditions for green industrial path development. Taking existing regional industrial specialization patterns as a starting point, this paper develops a new typology linking regional preconditions to various pathways for green industrial path development. This provides the foundation for identifying place-based policy implications for growing clean industries in different types of regions, grounded in the emerging perspective in innovation studies on policies for transformative change. The paper thereby helps to understand the pathways for greening the economy in different regional contexts and how such green pathways can be promoted through policy.
Q50|Seasonality matters: a multi-season, multi-state dynamic optimization in fishery|Many biological and economic processes in fishery happen seasonally. Most of the extant literature tends to neglect this fact. This work is an initial attempt to treat seasonality in a systematic and proper way. We apply a periodic Bellman approach to obtain the optimal feedback policy of each season. Our approach has rich potentials. It could deal with seasonal patterns of uneven lengths: some may span years and some within the year. We find that, in some cases the equilibrium consists of one harvesting season followed by a moratorium period, indicating an optimal closure of the fishery that would be overlooked by a yearly model. Unlike a typical policy that enforces a moratorium to recover the stock, we find that many states first undergo harvesting all year round and later evolve into the seasonal moratorium. A rising group biomass could be the overshooting effect instead of a clear sign to increase harvest. We sometimes observe declining optimal harvest with increasing states (‘valley’), which may relate to the unit profit difference between seasons. Fishing pressure on the mature elicits even heavier harvest in the next season on the same group. A protective moratorium of the immature seems to hinder the value of the whole stock.
Q50|Can an Emission Trading Scheme really reduce CO2 emissions in the short term? Evidence from a maritime fleet composition and deployment model|Global warming has become one of the most popular topics on this planet in the past decades, since it is the challenge that needs the efforts from the whole mankind. Maritime transportation, which carries more than 90% of the global trade, plays a critical role in the contribution of green house gases (GHGs) emission. Unfortunately, the GHGs emitted by the global fleet still falls outside the emission reduction scheme established by the Kyoto Protocol. Alternative solutions are therefore strongly desired. Several market-based measures are proposed and submitted to IMO for discussion and evaluation. In this paper, we choose to focus on one of these measures, namely Maritime Emissions Trading Scheme (METS). An optimization model integrating the classical fleet composition and deployment problem with the application of ETS (global or regional) is proposed. This model is used as a tool to study the actual impact of METS on fleet operation and corresponding CO2 emission. The results of the computational study suggest that in the short term the implementation of METS may not guarantee further emission reduction in certain scenarios. However, in other scenarios with low bunker price, high allowance cost or global METS coverage, a more significant CO2 decrease in the short term can be expected.
Q50|Save the planet or close your eyes? Testing strategic ignorance in a charity context|Do people try to avoid unpleasant information about the environmental consequences of their actions? If so, do they react with hostility towards others who provide the unwanted information? Fearing such hostility, do others abstain from providing the information? These are the questions we set out to explore by means of lab experiments presented here. To our surprise, and in stark contrast to related previous literature, we found few indications of willful ignorance. In a binary dictator game with an environmental charity as the recipient, an option to stay uninformed about the effects of one's actions for the charity was infrequently chosen, and did not significantly affect generosity. When another subject might choose to impose information on the dictator, almost all dictators asked for information themselves – but this was not associated with increased dictator generosity. We argue that the phenomenon of strategic ignorance is likely to be less robust and more context-dependent than one might expect based on previous research, and that this result may be important from an environmental policy perspective.
Q50|Parking, transit and traffic: Evidence from SFpark|Demand-responsive parking pricing programs, in which parking is priced based upon occupancy, are increasingly being used in cities experiencing rapid growth as a way to optimize parking. Despite the potential of demand-responsive parking in minimizing parking-related externalities, there are few empirical estimates regarding the effects of parking management policies, particularly around transit usage and traffics flow. We use data from SFpark, a demand-responsive on-street parking pricing program for the city of San Francisco, along with a rich micro data-set on transit bus usage from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. Using a difference-in-difference strategy, we find that SFpark is associated with sizeable increases in transit bus usage of about 21 and reductions in lane occupancy of 5 percentage points per census block. Our welfare computations suggest economic benefits of $36 million over the duration of the program (2011-2013) resulting from avoided pollution due to increased transit usage and from reduced congestion. These benefits easily exceed the nominal costs of the program. Our results not only suggest that demand-responsive pricing programs achieve their stated goals, but also mitigate many traffic-related externalities, yielding significant welfare benefits.
Q50|Political parties and climate change policy: why do parties sometimes talk about it, but sometimes keep silent|The paper studies the factors that shape party issue competition on climate change and environmentalism. It covers the quantitative study on political parties' positions in 22 European countries during electoral campaigns between 1990 and 2016, as well as two case studies: Polish electoral campaign in 2011 and German electoral campaign in 2013. The paper concludes that more favourable public opinion towards environment, lower socio-economic inequality and weaker trade unions are associated with high party competition on climate change and environmentalism.
Q50|Green firm, brown production|"In a theoretical model of an environmentally conscious (""green"") monopolist, we show that increasing greenness does not always mean lower output and environmental damages. We assume that a green firm can internalize environmental externalities in its decision making process and/or invest in cleaner production technology and management practices. We also find that our results hold regardless of whether consumers value the firm's pro-environmental actions or not."
Q50|City Size, Pollution and Emission Policies|This paper develops a micro-founded city systems model with an endogenous number of cities to explore whether local governments establish the optimal city size when production processes involve environmental pollution. Our analysis delivers two key insights. First, if an optimal scheme to regulate environmental pollution is implemented, cities chosen by local governments are never too large. They are too small if pollution is purely global, but at the optimal size, if pollution is purely local. Second, if no emission scheme is implemented or if emission policies are too lax, then cities steered by local governments, become too large, however.
Q50|What Matters for Environmental Quality in the Next-11 Countries: Economic Growth or Income Inequality?|This study uses 1971-2013 panel data to explore the implications of growth, wealth disparities and energy consumption on carbon emissions in a sample of Next-Eleven (N-11) countries. It uses modern econometric techniques to highlight a long-run interplay between selected variables in the carbon emissions function for all the N-11 nations and long-run interactions among the series analyzed. Contrastingly, it also shows that economic growth, income inequalities and energy consumption accelerate CO2 emissions. In addition to examining the effects of the wealth disparities square, the study also uses the Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis in the context of the N-11 states. Its findings suggest that policymakers should curb rising income inequalities through effective redistributive measures such as tax transfers (cash transfers) and taking up other expenditure programs for the poor. Moreover, the Indian government should emphasize on an energy-reducing strategy policy to reduce income inequalities and achieve sustainable development.
Q50|Quasi-Experimental Methods in Environmental Economics: Opportunities and Challenges|This paper examines the application of quasi-experimental methods in environmental economics. We begin with two observations: i) standard quasi-experimental methods, first applied in other microeconomic fields, typically assume unit-level treatments that do not spill over across units; (ii) because public goods, such as environmental attributes, exhibit externalities, treatment of one unit often affects other units. To explore the implications of applying standard quasi-experimental methods to public good problems, we extend the potential outcomes framework to explicitly distinguish between unit-level source and the resulting group-level exposure of a public good. This new framework serves as a foundation for reviewing and interpreting key papers from the recent empirical literature. We formally demonstrate that two common quasi-experimental estimators of the marginal social benefit of a public good can be biased due to externality spillovers, even when the source of the public good itself is quasi-randomly assigned. We propose an unbiased estimator for the valuation of local public goods and discuss how it can be implemented in future studies. Finally, we consider how to preserve the advantages of the quasi-experimental approach when valuing global public goods, such as climate change mitigation, for which no control units are available.
Q50|Heterogeneous preferences and the individual change to alternative electricity contracts|Based on data from a large-scale computer-based survey among more than 3700 German citizens, this paper empirically disentangles the determinants of the general change of electricity contracts and the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our econometric analysis reveals a strong relevance of behavioral factors and individual values and norms. For example, patience (which was measured by an incentivized experiment included in the survey) has a significantly positive effect on both general switches to alternative electricity contracts and specific switches to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, trust and (less robust) social preferences (also measured by an incentivized experiment) have additional significantly positive effects on the specific change to green electricity contracts. Our estimation results also imply an important role of political identification, i.e. an ecological policy orientation is strongly significantly positively correlated with the change to green electricity contracts. Furthermore, several household specific factors like relocation decisions as well as socio-demographic and socio-economic variables like household income are also relevant. The empirical analysis thus provides new explanation patterns for the phenomenon that relatively few households regularly change their electricity contracts and specifically switch to green electricity contracts, although they have high stated preferences for such changes. Our insights suggest several directions for policy and electricity suppliers to increase these switching rates. For example, the high importance of trust for the change to green electricity contracts suggests transparency initiatives of electricity suppliers to decrease concerns against renewable energies.
Q50|Dynamic Corrective Taxes with Time-Varying Salience|The intermittency of payment for many goods creates a disconnect between paying and consuming such that the marginal price is not always salient when consumption decisions are made. This paper derives optimal dynamic corrective taxes when there are externalities as well as internalities from inattention and persistence in consumption across periods. Our optimal taxes address dynamic inefficiencies that are not captured in static models of inattention. We also characterize a second-best constant tax and the excess burden associated with time-invariant tax rates. We then calibrate the model to U.S. residential electricity consumption.
Q50|Prices or Quantities Dominate Banking and Borrowing|The possibility of intertemporal banking and borrowing of tradeable permits is often viewed as tilting the various policy debates about optimal pollution control instruments toward favoring such time-flexible quantities. The present paper shows that this view is misleading, at least for the simplest dynamic extension of the original `prices vs. quantities' information structure. The model of this paper allows the firms to know and act upon the realization of uncertain future costs two full periods ahead of the regulators. For any given circumstance, the paper shows that either a fixed price or a fixed quantity is superior in expected welfare to time-flexible banking and borrowing. Furthermore, the standard original formula for the comparative advantage of prices over quantities contains sufficient information to completely characterize the regulatory role of intertemporal banking and borrowing. The logic and implications of these results are analyzed and discussed.
Q50|Hysteresis and the Welfare Effect of Corrective Policies: Theory and Evidence from an Energy-Saving Program|"A growing body of evidence documents that policies can affect household behaviors persistently, even if they are no longer in place. This paper studies the importance of such ""hysteresis"" - the failure of an effect to reverse itself as its underlying cause is reversed - for the welfare evaluation of corrective policies. First, we introduce hysteresis into the textbook framework used to derive canonical sufficient statistics formulas for the welfare effect of corrective policies. We then derive new formulas allowing for hysteresis. We show that, under certain conditions, the persistent effect of a short-run (i.e., temporary) policy becomes a new key statistic for evaluating the welfare effect of such a policy, and also of a long-run (i.e., permanent) version of a similar policy. Second, we estimate the persistent effect of a short-run policy, for which we argue that these conditions are met, in a policy-relevant context: residential electricity use in a developing country setting. We estimate that about half of the dramatic short-run reductions in residential electricity use induced by a 9-month-long policy that was imposed on millions of Brazilian households in 2001 persisted for at least 12 years after the policy ended. Finally, we combine our estimates with our framework to illustrate the implications that hysteresis can have for the welfare evaluation of corrective policies."
Q50|Quasi-Experimental Methods in Environmental Economics: Opportunities and Challenges|This paper examines the application of quasi-experimental methods in environmental economics. We begin with two observations: i) standard quasi-experimental methods, first applied in other microeconomic fields, typically assume unit-level treatments that do not spill over across units; (ii) because public goods, such as environmental attributes, exhibit externalities, treatment of one unit often affects other units. To explore the implications of applying standard quasi-experimental methods to public good problems, we extend the potential outcomes framework to explicitly distinguish between unit-level source and the resulting group-level exposure of a public good. This new framework serves as a foundation for reviewing and interpreting key papers from the recent empirical literature. We formally demonstrate that two common quasi-experimental estimators of the marginal social benefit of a public good can be biased due to externality spillovers, even when the source of the public good itself is quasi-randomly assigned. We propose an unbiased estimator for the valuation of local public goods and discuss how it can be implemented in future studies. Finally, we consider how to preserve the advantages of the quasi-experimental approach when valuing global public goods, such as climate change mitigation, for which no control units are available.
Q50|Dynamic corrective taxes with time-varying salience|The intermittency of payment for many goods creates a disconnect between paying and consuming such that the marginal price is not always salient when consumption decisions are made. This paper derives optimal dynamic corrective taxes when there are externalities as well as internalities from inattention and persistence in consumption across periods. Our optimal taxes address dynamic inefficiencies that are not captured in static models of inattention. We also characterize a second-best constant tax and the excess burden associated with time-invariant tax rates. We then calibrate the model to U.S. residential electricity consumption.
Q50|Heterogeneous Environmental and Grid Benefits from Rooftop Solar and the Costs of Inefficient Siting Decisions|Federal and state policies in the U.S. subsidize electricity generation from 1.4 million rooftop solar arrays because of pollution avoidance benefits and grid congestion relief. Yet because these benefits vary across the U.S. according to solar irradiance, technologies of electricity generators, and grid characteristics, the value of these benefits, and, consequently, the optimal subsidy, are largely unknown. Policy, therefore, is unlikely to have induced efficient solar investments. This paper (1) provides the first systematic, theoretically consistent, and empirically valid estimates of pollution damages avoidable by solar capacity in each U.S. zip code, (2) relates these external benefits to subsidy levels in each U.S. state, and (3) estimates the share of these benefits that spillover to other states. It also measures the energy value of capacity across the U.S. and the value of transmission congestion relief in California. Environmental benefits are shown to vary considerably across the U.S., and to largely spillover to neighboring states. Subsidy levels are essentially uncorrelated with environmental benefits contributing to installed capacity that sacrifices approximately $1 billion per year in environmental benefits. Energy value is estimated to vary less than environmental benefits, while California rooftop solar is shown to generate no congestion relief.
Q50|Link-based Internal and Full Cost Analysis|This paper develops a link-based full cost model, which identifies the key cost components of travel, including both internal and external versions of cost, and gives a link-based cost estimate. The key cost components for travelers are categorized as time cost, emission cost, crash cost, user monetary cost, and infrastructure cost. Selecting the Minneapolis - St. Paul (Twin Cities) Metropolitan region as the study area, the estimates show that the average full cost of travel is $0.68/veh-km, in which the time and user monetary costs account for approximately 85% of the total. Except for the infrastructure cost, highways are more cost-effective than other surface roadways considering all the other cost components, as well as the internal and full costs.
Q50|A review of the empirical literature combining economic and environmental performance data at the micro-level|This article reviews the empirical literature combining economic and environmental performance data at the micro-level, i.e. firm- or facility-level. The literature has generally found a positive and statistically significant correlation between economic performance, as measured by stock market returns, and environmental performance, as measured by emissions of pollutants or adoption of international environmental standards. The main reason for this finding seems to be that firms that reduce their material and energy costs experience both better economic performance and lower emissions. There is also evidence that greener firms are able to attract more productive employees and face smaller costs of capital, and that the introduction of green products enhances firms’ profitability. Only a small and recent literature analyses the joint causal impact of environmental regulations on environmental and economic performance. Interestingly, this literature shows that environmental regulations tend to improve environmental performance while not weakening economic performance. However, the evidence so far is limited to a handful of environmental regulations that are not extremely stringent, so the result cannot be easily generalized. More research is needed to assess the joint effects of environmental regulations on environmental and economic performance, to explore the heterogeneity of these effects across sectors, countries and types of policies, and to understand which policy designs allow improving environmental quality while not altering the economic performance of regulated businesses.
Q50|La coopération climatique après l’Accord de Paris|The concern for universal participation in the Paris Agreement has been costly in terms of ambition. In the absence of corrections to the trajectories envisioned for the 2030 horizon by national contributions, not only the carbon budget compatible with the objective of containing global warming below 2°C will be by far exceeded at this horizon, but the rupture to be made at that time and the emission reduction rates to be achieved beyond that point make the very feasibility of the 2°C objective problematic […].
Q50|Faraway, So Close: Coupled Climate and Economic Dynamics in an Agent-based Integrated Assessment Model|In this work we develop an agent-based model that offers an alternative to standard, computable general equilibrium integrated assessment models (IAMs). The Dystopian Schumpeter meeting Keynes (DSK) model is composed of heterogeneous firms belonging to capital-good, consumption-good and energy sectors. Production and energy generation lead to greenhouse gas emissions, which affect temperature dynamics. Climate damages are modelled at the individual level as stochastic shocks hitting workers' labour productivity, energy efficiency, capital stock and inventories of firms. In that, aggregate damages emerge from the aggregation of losses suffered by heterogeneous, interacting and boundedly rational agents. The model is run focusing on a business-as-usual carbon-intensive scenario consistent with a Representative Concentration Pathway 8.5. We find that the DSK model is able to account for a wide ensemble of micro- and macro-empirical regularities concerning both economic and climate dynamics. Simulation experiments show a substantial lack of isomorphism between the effects of micro- and macro-level shocks, as it is typical in complex system models. In particular, different types of shocks have heterogeneous impact on output growth, unemployment rate, and the likelihood of economic crises, pointing to the importance of the different economic channel affected by the shock. Overall, we report much larger climate damages than those projected by standard IAMs under comparable scenarios, suggesting possible shifts in the growth dynamics, from a self-sustained pattern to stagnation and high volatility, and the need of urgent policy interventions.
Q50|Optimal Clean Energy R&D Investments Under Uncertainty| The availability of technology plays a major role in the feasibility and costs of climate policy. Nonetheless, technological change is highly uncertain and capital intensive, requiring risky efforts in research and development of clean energy technologies. In this paper, we introduce a two-track method that makes it possible to maintain the rich set of information produced by climate-economy models while introducing the dimension of uncertainty in innovation ef- forts, without succumbing to computation complexity. In particular, we solve the problem of an optimal R&D portfolio by employing Approximate Dynamic Programming, through multiple runs of an integrated assessment model (IAM) for the purpose of computing the value function, and expert elicitation data to quantify the relevant uncertainties. We exemplify the methodology with the problem of evaluating optimal near-term innovation investment portfolios in four key clean energy technologies (solar, biofuels, bioelectricity and personal electric vehicle batteries), taking into account the uncertainty surrounding the effectiveness of innovation to improve the performance of these technologies. We employ an IAM (WITCH) which has a fairly rich description of the energy technologies and experts’ beliefs on future costs for the above-mentioned technologies. Focusing on Europe and its short-term climate policy commitments, we find that batteries in personal transportation dominate the optimal public R&D portfolio. The resulting ranking across technologies is robust to changes in risk-aversion, R&D budget limitation and assump- tions on crowding out of other investments. These results suggest an important upscaling of R&D efforts compared to the recent past.
Q50|Women, Climate Change and Economic Problems in the Family|"""Objective – The role of women in Indonesia, particularly in East Nusa Tenggara in domestic activity very dominant. This study focuses on the efforts made by women cope with the impacts of climate change. Methodology/Technique – Methods used are mixture of quantitative and qualitative research. While the location of the research conducted in Kupang regency, East Nusa Tenggara. Findings – The study of the results showed that, women are still playing a dominant role in getting a sufficient supply of staple foods and meal replacements basic needs and outside work done in the event of extreme climatic impacts on the ocean. Novelty – This research looks at the optimal empowerment of women's role in addressing climate change and learn to know how the role of women in the economic field in the face of climate change impacts."""
Q50|Green Practices in Northern Region Hotels of Malaysia|"""Objective – The objective of this paper is to examine green practices of hotels located in Northern region of Malaysia. Methodology/Technique – The sample of the study is 115 hotels in Penang, Kedah and Perlis. Questionnaires were personally delivered to each respective hotel. The response rate for the survey is 43%. Findings – Findings from the survey indicate that hoteliers have started to show a positive sign towards adoption of green practices such as usage of power saving bulbs, water conservation, and recycling management program. Novelty – The study urges more campaigns on awareness and the benefits of green practices. And, it will indirectly educate the hoteliers and society at large on the importance of saving the Mother Nature. """
Q50|One Global Map but Different Worlds: Worldwide Survey of Human Access to Basic Utilities|The paper aims to reveal one integrated global map which points out the major geographical inequalities in providing basic utilities across the countries using multivariate analysis and thematic cartography. Sixteen indicators with global coverage were selected taking into account the waste collection services, sanitation facilities, drinking water sources, energy, electricity, habitat and demographic conditions. Several data are broken down for the total, urban and rural population in order to outline the rural-urban disparities between and within countries. A special focus is given to waste collection coverage, in order to compute a comprehensive global assessment of this key indicator of public health, which is one of the poorest monitored basic utility. The world countries were divided into 10 classes according to the hierarchical cluster analysis. Each class has particular features outlining the gaps between high, middle and low-income countries with direct impact on quality of life, public health, and environment.
Q50|Behavioral Insights for the Analysis of Green Tips|People in several countries are overwhelmed with green tips in order to encourage them protecting the environment. The effectiveness of these tips, however, highly depends on the context and the person targeted by the tips. In particular, we contend that some green tips may do more harm than good when individuals have cognitive and behavioral biases. Without purporting to be exhaustive, we explain some of these biases and mechanisms by which green tips may lead to a net environmental degradation. We also emphasize that it is possible to complement green tips with debiasing strategies to guarantee their performance. We present some of these strategies, notably the foot-in-the-door technique, commitment strategies, the strategic use of small changes and individuals' pursuit of identity. Finally, several policy implications are developed.
Q50|The impact of pollution abatement investments on production technology: new insights from frontier analysis|This paper estimates the impact of pollution abatement investments on the production technology of firms by pursuing two new directions. First, we take advantage of recent econometric developments in productivity and eciency analysis and compare the results obtained with two complementary approaches: parametric stochastic frontier analysis and conditional nonparametric frontier analysis. Second, we focus not only on the average e ect but also on its heterogeneity across firms and over time and search for potential nonlinearities. We provide new results suggesting that the e ect of pollution abatement investments on the production process is heterogeneous both within firms and over time and also indicating that such an e ect is not monotonic. These results have relevant implications both for modeling and for the purposes of advice on environmentally friendly policy.
Q50|Aggregate green productivity growth in OECD’s countries|Most of previous research about Total Factor Productivity (TFP) at the macro level only emphasizes technical effect and technological progress at the country level, but it ignores structural effect for a group of countries at the aggregate level. This paper attempts to measure the green productivity evolution incorporating carbon dioxide emissions based on the Luenberger productivity indicator for a group of 30 OECD countries over the period of 1971−2011. We propose a novel decomposition for green productivity growth at the aggregate level which separates productivity changes into three components: technological progress, technical efficiency change, and structural efficiency change. The structural effect captures the heterogeneity in the combination of input and output mixes among countries that can impact productivity growth at a more aggregate level. In the literature, this effect has not been quantified for a group of nations such as the OECD countries. Our results indicate that the traditional TFP index underestimates green growth which is motivated by the effective and efficient environmental policies of the OECD. For the last two decades, the green productivity growth has been mainly driven by technology progress.
Q50|Complexity and the Economics of Climate Change: A Survey and a Look Forward|Climate change is one of the most daunting challenges human kind has ever faced. In the paper, we provide a survey of the micro and macro economics of climate change from a complexity science perspective and we discuss the challenges ahead for this line of research. We identify four areas of the literature where complex system models have already produced valuable insights: (i) coalition formation and climate negotiations, (ii) macroeconomic impacts of climate-related events, (iii) energy markets and (iv) diffusion of climate-friendly technologies. On each of these issues, accounting for heterogeneity, interactions and disequilibrium dynamics provides a complementary and novel perspective to the one of standard equilibrium models. Furthermore, it highlights the potential economic benefits of mitigation and adaptation policies and the risk of under-estimating systemic climate change-related risks.
Q50|Green Technology Adoption and the Business Cycle|We analyze the adoption of green technology in a dynamic economy affected by random shocks where demand spillovers are the main driver of technological improvements. Firms’ beliefs and consumers’ anticipations drive the path of the economy. We derive the optimal policy of investment subsidy and the expected time and likelihood of reaching a targeted level of environmental quality under economic uncertainty. This allows us to estimate the value that should be given to the environment in order to avoid an environmental catastrophe as a function of the strength of spillover effects.
Q50|Nudging à la carte – A field experiment on food choice|We test the effect of framing of a menu on the choice of ordering climate friendly dishes in a randomized controlled experiment. Rearranging the menu in favor of vegetarian food has a large and significant effect on the willingness to order a vegetarian dish instead of meat. We show that there exists a considerable marginal group willing to change meat consumption behavior at least in the short term. Our results demonstrate both to policy makers and to actors in the food service sector that small, cheap interventions can significantly decrease carbon emissions from food consumption.
Q50|Nudging to reduce meat consumption: Immediate and persistent effects of an intervention at a university restaurant|Changing dietary habits to reduce the consumption of meat is considered to have great potential to mitigate food-related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. To test if nudging can increase the consumption of vegetarian food, I conducted a field experiment with two university restaurants. At the treated restaurant, the salience of the vegetarian option was increased by changing the menu order, and by placing the dish at a spot visible to customers. The other restaurant served as a control. Daily sales data on the three main dishes sold were collected from September 2015 until June 2016. The experiment was divided into a baseline, an intervention, and a reversal period where the setup was returned to its original state. Results show that the nudge increased the share of vegetarian lunches sold by around 6 percentage points. The change in behavior is partly persistent, as the share of vegetarian lunches sold remained 4 percentage points higher than during the baseline period after the original setup was reinstated. The changes in consumption reduced GHG emissions from food sales around 5 percent.
Q50|Conditions for effective risk sharing against marine pollution: the case of the Ría de Vigo|The question of how effective protection against environmental impairment can be provided has spawned much literature. One instrument that is often invoked to provide compensation for environmental damage is insurance. Traditionally, a distinction is made between first and third party insurance. First party insurance may be acquired by potential victims of marine pollution, such as fisheries seriously harmed by ship-source oil spills. Conversely, third party insurance is sought by polluters to cover their legal responsibility and, at the same time, protect the potential victims from polluters unable to meet their financial obligations.
Q50|Sulphur Abatement Globally in Maritime Shipping|In 2016, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) decided on global regulations to reduce sulphur emissions to air from maritime shipping starting 2020. The regulation implies that ships can continue to use residual fuels with a high sulphur content, such as heavy fuel oil (HFO), if they employ scrubbers to desulphurise the exhaust gases. Alternatively, they can use fuels with less than 0.5% sulphur, such as desulphurised HFO, distillates (diesel) or liquefied natural gas (LNG). The options of lighter fuels and desulphurisation entail costs, including higher energy consumption at refineries, and the present study identifies and compares compliance options as a function of ship type and operational patterns. The results indicate distillates as an attractive option for smaller vessels, while scrubbers will be an attractive option for larger vessels. For all vessels, apart from the largest fuel consumers, residual fuels desulphurised to less than 0.5 % sulphur are also a competing abatement option. Moreover, we analyse the interaction between global SOX reductions and CO2 (and fuel consumption), and the results indicate that the higher fuel cost for distillates will motivate shippers to lower speeds, which will offset the increased CO2 emissions at the refineries. Scrubbers, in contrast, will raise speeds and CO2 emissions.
Q50|Direct and indirect effects of waste management policies on household waste behaviour: The case of Sweden|Swedish legislation makes municipalities responsible for recycling or disposing of household waste. Municipalities therefore play an important role in achieving Swe-den’s increased levels of ambition in the waste management area and in achieving the goal of a more circular economy. This paper studies how two municipal policy instruments – weight-based waste tariffs and special systems for the collection of food waste – affect the collected volumes of different types of waste. We find that a system of collecting food waste separately is more effective overall than imposing weight-based waste tariffs in respect not only of reducing the amounts of waste destined for incineration, but also of increasing materials recycling and biological recovery, despite the fact that the direct incentive effects of these two systems should be similar. Separate food waste collection was associated with increased recycling not only of food waste but also of other waste. This suggests that the signalling effect of food waste collection, i.e. indirectly indicating to households that recycling is important and desirable, may be as important as direct incentive effects.
Q50|Pollution Meets Efficiency: Multi-equation modelling of generation of pollution and related efficiency measures|The generation of unintended residuals in the production of intended outputs is the key factor behind our serious problems with pollution. The way this joint production is modelled is therefore of crucial importance for our understanding and empirical efforts to change economic activities in order to reduce harmful residuals. The materials balance tells us that residuals stem from the use of material inputs. The modelling of joint production must therefore reflect this. A multi-equation model building on the factorially determined multi-output model of classical production theory can theoretically satisfy the materials balance. Potentially complex technical relationships are simplified to express each of the intended outputs and the unintended residuals as functions of the same set of inputs. End-of-pipe abatement activity is introduced for a production unit. Introducing direct environmental regulation of the amount of pollutants generated an optimal private solution based on profit maximisation is derived. Serious problems with the single-equation models that have dominated the literature studying efficiency of production of intended and unintended outputs the last decades are revealed. An important result is that a functional trade-off between desirable and undesirable outputs for given resources, as exhibited by single-equation models, is not compatible with the materials balance and efficiency requirements on production relations. Multi-equation models without this functional trade-off should therefore replace single equation models. Extending the chosen multi-equation model to allow for inefficiency, three efficiency measures are introduced: desirable output efficiency, residuals efficiency, and abatement efficiency. All measures can be estimated separately using the non-parametric DEA model.
Q50|Consumer Preferences and Soft Load Control on the Swedish Electricity Market|"The main purpose of the present report is to present the results of the project ""The electricity customer, a new power on the electricity market?"" The main purpose of the project is to estimate lost values due to various restrictions on household electricity consumption, which gives us ""prices"" of schematic reductions in power through behavioral adaptations among Swedish households. Another purpose is to estimate households' costs for short power outages, which gives a ""price"" of a targeted disconnection of electricity. The willingness of households to adjust their electricity consumption is governed by several factors - both economic and non-economic. An additional objective is therefore to analyze the extent to which households are willing to adapt for non-economic reasons, for example, to facilitate the integration of renewable electricity production such as solar and wind power. To achieve the objectives of the project, we analyze household habits and preferences for electricity usage in connection with daily demand peaks during winter time in Sweden. We have chosen an empirical approach where households are subjected to choose between hypothetical electricity contracts where different types of restrictions in the use of large-scale household appliances are included. The different characteristics of the agreements or contracts relate to (1) maximum power usage in watts, (2) the duration of the restriction, (3) number of occasions of restriction and (4) the ability to change the selection of which electrical appliances to be used during the restriction. In addition to the above-mentioned approach, we also study how this relates to other electricity usage (e.g. heating, lighting, TV, etc.). This is done by asking households for compensation requirements to accept full power outages, i.e. black-outs. By studying the difference in compensation requirements between the ""soft"" limitation and the black-outs, the value of different loads can be estimated. The results reveal that households on average require a compensation of SEK 2000 - 3700 depending on the severity of electricity consumption constraint. Depending on how we define the potential loss in potential electricity usage for different scenarios, the results can be translated to be between SEK 20 and 40 per kWh. In the case of total power outages, the valuation is significantly higher and corresponds to SEK 3000 to 4600. This can in turn be translated to the equivalent of SEK 400 - 600 per kWh. The results thus indicate a significant difference between the value of the load in a soft control DSM program, and the remaining load (e.g. heating, lighting and TV). Compared to previous literature on the value of lost load, VOLL, our estimates fall in the higher range, especially compared to Swedish studies. We believe this is in line with the context outlined in the present study with rather many occasions of disruptions at the peak demand hour. The results also show that a pro-environmental cheap talk make people more likely to opt into a DSM program with load controlled at many occasions. It did not, however, make people see more lenient on hard load controls in general. An immediate policy implication from the results is that specific policies aiming at stimulating behavioral changes probably are very ineffective and/or costly. As a result, policies to affect demand response should focus on automatization and passive response. A related policy implication is that it is far from obvious that demand response is always more cost effective than supply response, i.e., increasing production of electricity."
Q50|There Is No Place like Work: Evidence on Health and Labor Market Behavior from Changing Weather Conditions|Ill-health is commonly believed to be detrimental for labor market outcomes. Yet, causal evidence mostly comes from analyses of severe shocks, whereas minor variations in health are not only more common but also a better target for prevention measures. This study makes use of data from the German Socio-Economic Panel merged with data on regional weather conditions prior to the date of a survey interview. Weather conditions are capable of affecting peoples’ health. While bad weather leads to minor reductions in health, the effect on working hours is, surprisingly, positive. Comprehensive survey data on time-use and subjective assessments of people’s working lives allows discussing the mechanisms behind these findings, such as whether the weather manipulates people’s allocation of working time and leisure. The evidence seems to support the idea that less healthy individuals compensate the potential impairments on labor productivity by spending some additional time at the workplace. Analyzing effect heterogeneity across subgroups, the study shows that there is only little variation across industries, but stronger increases in working time among people in part-time jobs. While there are no gender-specifics in the health impairments due to bad weather, the increase in working hours is driven by women.
Q50|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern and Prospects for Cooperation|The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
Q50|Benefit Transfer for Ecosystem Services|Benefits transfer is the projection of benefits from one place and time to another to estimate the benefits of a proposed project or policy; this includes the adaptation of an original study to a new policy application at the same location. The appeal of a benefits transfer is that it can be cost effective, both monetarily and in time. Using previous studies, analysts can select existing results to construct a transferred value for the desired amenity influenced by the policy change. Benefits transfer practices are generally applicable to valuing ecosystem services as well as specific types of ecosystem services. An ideal benefits transfer will scale value estimates to both the ecosystem services and to the preferences of those who hold values; benefits transfers for many applications only do the latter.
Q50|Evolution of the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme: Sectoral Coverage and Point of Obligation|When it was launched in 2008, the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (NZ ETS) pioneered the design concept of implementing an emissions trading scheme (ETS) across all sectors of the economy (e.g. stationary energy, transport, industrial processes, forestry, waste and biological emissions from agriculture) and all six major greenhouse gases (GHGs). This reflected New Zealand’s relatively unique emission profile among industrialised countries (with heavy renewable generation, nearly half of emissions from agriculture, and a large land area suitable for forestry) and its interest in finding effective, efficient, and equitable solutions to the challenge of meeting its international emission reduction targets. Further innovations at the time – influenced in part by the government’s previous efforts to implement a carbon tax in the energy and industry sectors – were the selection of predominantly upstream points of obligation in the energy sector, with the potential for some major downstream energy users to opt in voluntarily, and the selection of a default processor-level obligation in the agriculture sector, with the option to shift to a farmer-level obligation. As of 2017, the entry of biological emissions from agriculture has been deferred indefinitely. Otherwise, the proof of concept on both broad sectoral coverage and upstream points of obligation has been demonstrated through practical experience. To help inform future ETS policy making in New Zealand and internationally, this paper provides a conceptual foundation for design decisions on ETS coverage and points of obligation, and explores the history of and rationale for the specific design choices that have been made in this regard in New Zealand.
Q50|Evolution of the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme: Linking|The New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (NZ ETS) was conceived as New Zealand’s gateway to the international carbon market with two objectives: assisting New Zealand to meet its international climate change obligations and reducing domestic net emissions below business-as-usual levels. Underlying these objectives was the principle of least-cost compliance for both the New Zealand government and NZ ETS participants. Uniquely among ETS to date, from 2008 through mid-2015 the NZ ETS operated with buy-and-sell linkages to the Kyoto market that did not constrain domestic emissions and were used to set the domestic price. As international Kyoto unit prices plunged from 2011 onward, so did New Zealanders’ incentives to invest in higher-cost domestic mitigation. Instead, NZ ETS participants complied by purchasing large numbers of Kyoto units. In November 2012, the government announced it would take its post-2012 commitment under the UNFCCC, not the Kyoto Protocol. NZ ETS participants responded by surrendering low-cost Kyoto units and banking NZUs which were expected to remain usable in the longer term. In mid-2015, the NZ ETS delinked from the Kyoto market. Although the New Zealand government has explored bilateral ETS linkages, none has come to fruition to date. As of 2017, the NZ ETS operates as a stand-alone system with a substantial participant-held NZU bank as the legacy of past linking. The government now faces important decisions about the future of unit supply in the NZ ETS and linkages to international markets. This paper examines New Zealand’s experience with linking and de-linking its ETS to capture lessons that could be of value to policy makers in New Zealand and other countries. It finds that the considerable opportunities to a small ETS market from linking can be negated if the environmental, economic and political risks are not managed strategically. It also highlights some of the technical and political challenges of negotiating bilateral linking agreements. New Zealand’s future policy on ETS linking, and more generally support for international mitigation as part of our global contribution, should ensure the integrity of New Zealand’s contribution to global mitigation and support strategic domestic decarbonisation in the longer term.
Q50|Gasoline price uncertainty and the design of fuel economy standards|What are the implications of gasoline price volatility for the design of fuel economy policies? I show that this problem has a strong parallel to Weitzman's (1974) classic model of using price or quantity controls to regulate an externality. Changes in fuel prices act as shocks to the marginal cost of complying with the standard. Assuming constant marginal damages from fuel consumption, an application of Weitzman (1974) implies that a fixed fuel economy standard reduces expected welfare relative to a “price” policy such as a feebate or, equivalently, a fuel economy standard that is indexed to the price of gasoline. When the regulator is constrained to use a fixed standard, I show that the usual approach to setting the standard—equate expected marginal compliance cost to marginal damage—is likely to be sub-optimal because the standard may not bind if the realized gasoline price is sufficiently high. Instead, the optimal fixed standard will be relatively relaxed and may be non-binding even at the expected gasoline price. Finally, I show that although an attribute-based standard allows vehicle choices to flexibly respond to gasoline price shocks, the resulting distortions imply that the optimal fuel economy standard is not attribute-based.
Q50|Consequences of the Clean Water Act and the Demand for Water Quality|Since the 1972 U.S. Clean Water Act, government and industry have invested over $1 trillion to abate water pollution, or $100 per person- year. Over half of U.S. stream and river miles, however, still violate pollution standards. We use the most comprehensive set of files ever compiled on water pollution and its determinants, including 50 million pollution readings from 240,000 monitoring sites and a network model of all U.S. rivers, to study water pollution’s trends, causes, and welfare consequences. We have three main findings. First, water pollution concentrations have fallen substantially. Between 1972 and 2001, for example, the share of waters safe for fishing grew by 12 percentage points. Second, the Clean Water Act’s grants to municipal wastewater treatment plants, which account for $650 billion in expenditure, caused some of these declines. Through these grants, it cost around $1.5 million (2014 dollars) to make one river-mile fishable for a year. We find little displacement of municipal expenditure due to a federal grant. Third, the grants’ estimated effects on housing values are smaller than the grants’ costs; we carefully discuss welfare implications.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q50|Averting Catastrophes that Kill|"We face a variety of potential catastrophes; nuclear or bioterrorism, a climate catastrophe, and a ""mega-virus"" are examples. Martin and Pindyck (AER 2015) showed that decisions to avert such catastrophes are interdependent, so that simple cost-benefit analysis breaks down. They assumed that catastrophic events cause ""destruction,"" i.e., a reduction in the stream of consumption. But some catastrophes cause death instead of, or in addition to, destruction. Here we incorporate death in a model of catastrophe avoidance, and show how it affects the interdependence of catastrophic events and the ""willingness to pay"" to avoid those events."
Q50|Economy-Wide Effects of Mortality Risk Reductions from Environmental Policies|The general equilibrium (GE) effects of environmental policies have long been a concern of stake-holders and researchers due to the potential for economy-wide feedbacks that could affect the efficiency and incidence of those policy interventions. Concerns about the potential economy-wide effects of environmental regulations are most often focused on the costs of compliance, while the beneficial outcomes of these policies are typically excluded from GE analyses. However, both regulators and researchers have recently shown interest in general equilibrium (GE) assessments of the benefits and economy-wide impacts of mortality risk reductions. GE models are able to capture feedbacks that may be important for understanding the welfare implications of environmental policies. In a study of the cumulative effects of the Clean Air Act, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found estimates for the benefits of air quality improvements that were more than an order of magnitude smaller under a GE approach com- pared with a traditional partial equilibrium (PE) approach. It has been suggested that these results are evidence that the PE benefits of environmental regulations are implausibly large. However, previous GE analyses of environmental or public health policies have characterized the expected health improvements using highly simplified approximations whose validity have yet to be closely examined. We present the first explicit characterization of mortality risk changes in a GE model applied to environmental regulations. We find that reductions in mortality risks can have significant GE feedbacks and that these effects are important for estimating the benefits, economic impacts, and potentially the costs of environmental policies. Our results suggest that the previously used approximations for incorporating mortality risk reductions in GE models may be the main source of the large discrepancies between GE and PE benefits estimates in previous studies, and may introduce significant errors into estimates of the economy-wide impacts of environmental policies.
Q50|Reverse Supply Chain Management – Theory and Practice|The traditional interest of researchers and practitioners in the field of supply chain management focuses on the movement of material flows from the initial producer to end customer in the chain. However, nowadays more and more products are returned to manufacturers or distributors. Hence, the concept of socalled reverse supply chains arises – these are chains that serve the flows of products and materials moving from the end customer to the initial producer. The article presents the essence and configuration of the reverse supply chains and examines the challenges facing their management. It discusses the role of the European and Bulgarian legislation and provides examples of the best practices in the management of reverse supply chains. The thesis is argued that the effective and efficient management of reverse supply chains provides a number of advantages and benefits for companies and stakeholders.
Q50|Exploring The Obstacles And The Limits Of Sustainable Development. A Theoretical Approach|The term “sustainable” or “sustainability” is currently used so much and in so many fields that it has become basically part of our everyday lives. It has been connected and linked to almost everything related to our living, to our lifestyle: energy, transport, housing, diet, clothing etc. But what does the term “sustainable” really mean? Many people may have heard about sustainable development or sustainability and may have even tried to have a sustainable living but their efforts might not be enough. The present paper is meant to bring forward a few of the limits of “sustainability” concept. Moreover, it is focused on revealing some arguments from the “other side” along with disagreements regarding some of the principles of “sustainable development” and even critics related to its progress, to its achievements. Another purpose of this paper is to draw attention over some of the issues and obstacles which may threaten the future of sustainability. The paper is also meant to highlight the impact that some stakeholders might have on the evolution of sustainable development due to their financial power, on a global scale.
Q50|Environmental Governance and Policy in Kazakhstan|We provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of environmental governance and policy in Kazakhstan as the country is assumed to have a leading role in Central Asia in terms of green growth and sustainable development. The overview of the environmental and institutional framework in the country reveals that the significant steps towards an improvement of environmental governance have been undertaken.
Q50|Population Growth and Carbon Emissions|We provide evidence that lower fertility can simultaneously increase income per capita and lower carbon emissions, eliminating a trade-off central to most policies aimed at slowing global climate change. We estimate the effect of lower fertility on carbon emissions accounting for the fact that changes in fertility patterns affect carbon emissions through three channels: total population, the age structure of the population, and economic output. Our analysis proceeds in two steps. First, we estimate a version of the STIRPAT equation on an unbalanced yearly panel of cross-country data from 1950-2010. We demonstrate that the coefficient on population is nearly seven times larger than the coefficient on income per capita and that this difference is statistically significant. Thus, regression results imply that 1% slower population growth could be accompanied by an increase in income per capita of nearly 7% while still lowering carbon emissions. In the second part of our analysis, we use a recently constructed economic-demographic model of Nigeria to estimate the effect of lower fertility on carbon emissions accounting for the impacts of fertility on population growth, population age structure, and income per capita. The model was constructed to estimate the effect of lower fertility on economic growth, making it well-suited for this application. We find that by 2100 C.E., moving from the medium to the low variant of the UN fertility projection leads to 35% lower yearly emissions and 15% higher income per capita. These results strongly suggest that population policies should be a part of the approach to combating global climate change.
Q50|Technical efficiency, productivity change and environmental degradation|This study deals with the nonparametric frontier analysis in the case of the EU 28 countries for a period spanning from 1993 to 2012. It provides statistical inference about the radial output based measure of technical efficiency under the assumption of Constant Returns to Scale (CRS) and it performs scale analysis that allows determining the nature of scale inefficiency of each data point. Furthermore, an order-α approach is developed for determining partial frontiers. Both traditional Malmquist-Luenberger and bootstrapped Malmquist productivity indexes between 1993 and 2012 are constructed. Analysis of productivity change by decomposing the Total Factor Productivity Index into Efficiency Change and Technical Change is performed showing respectively whether productivity gains derive mainly from improvements in efficiency or are mostly the result of technological progress.
Q50|Renewable energy governance in India: challenges and prospects for achieving the 2022 energy goals|India has set colossal renewable energy (RE) targets (achieving 175GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022) which need a clear strategy roadmap, integrated planning and a whole-of-system approach. However, the loopholes in institutional mechanisms are bound to hinder the process of policy formulation and implementation for the aspired quantum leap. This paper is an attempt to observe governance of renewable energy in India while exploring the issues and challenges that have been stalling the process of clean energy uptake. The paper finds that despite the comprehensive policy and regulatory frameworks, the large disconnect between the central policies and regional needs has created barriers for deployment of renewable technologies. The paper emphasizes the provision for clean energy financial support to be made available to the states for addressing the disparities between RE potential and the development cost, and planning for better grid management systems. The RE targets also demand an intensive capital market development and innovative financial support mechanisms and products. While aligning itself with the clean energy goals, India needs to focus significantly on the energy needs of the rural population which has been grappling with electricity cuts and brownouts. For regions with limited or no electricity supply, the government should aggressively promote the ideas of off-grid solar power and micro grids. The paper also recommends the possibilities for private sector investments, rural entrepreneurship and public- private ventures for filling in the gaps, and thus harnessing the potential of RE-rich states.
Q50|One Global Map but Different Worlds: Worldwide Survey of Human Access to Basic Utilities|The paper aims to reveal one integrated global map which points out the major geographical inequalities in providing basic utilities across the countries using multivariate analysis and thematic cartography. Sixteen indicators with global coverage were selected taking into account the waste collection services, sanitation facilities, drinking water sources, energy, electricity, habitat and demographic conditions. Several data are broken down for the total, urban and rural population in order to outline the rural-urban disparities between and within countries. A special focus is given to waste collection coverage, in order to compute a comprehensive global assessment of this key indicator of public health, which is one of the poorest monitored basic utility. The world countries were divided into 10 classes according to the hierarchical cluster analysis. Each class has particular features outlining the gaps between high, middle and low-income countries with direct impact on quality of life, public health, and environment.
Q50|Estimating recreational values of coastal zones|The present study tries to improve our understanding of why some people value coastal zone using attitudinal and preference factors in a Contingent Valuation Method (CVM) study. Specifically, it aims at public preferences for improving the quality (protection) of Pagasitikos coastal area in Greece and explores the influence of environmental attitude on preference to people’s willingness to pay (WTP) coastal zone conservation. It also presents the results of a discrete CVM survey which investigates households’ WTP for a set of wetland attributes. The proposed approach uses applied methodological methods like Principal Components and Cluster Analyses together with logistic regression. Various demographic variables (as education and income) together with people’s preferences for coastal zone show a strong impact on WTP and the specific amounts stated. At a second stage people who accept the CVM scenario results and grouped into two segments, with different attitude against coastal zone management and ecological view.
Q50|L’impegno della UE per l’ambiente e il clima: l’esperienza del programma LIFE<BR>[How European Union supports climate action and environmental protection: LIFE programme experience]|European Union addresses environmental and climatic issues through different instruments (research and innovation programs, various categories of structural funds, etc. Among them, LIFE (L'Instrument Financier pour l'Environnement) is the EU’s financial instrument supporting environmental, nature conservation and climate action projects in EU countries. Since 1992, LIFE has co-financed 4306 projects and in 25 years contributed to ensuring environmental protection all over Europe.
Q50|Regional environmental efficiency in waste generation|This paper employs Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to consider waste generation at a regional level in the European Union (EU). By doing so both good and bad outputs are taken into account and different frameworks are designed. Five parameters (waste generation, employment rate, capital formation, GDP and population density) are used for 172 EU regions and for the years 2009, 2011 and 2013. In doing so four frameworks have been designed with different inputs and outputs each time. The results show the more efficient EU regions according to each framework, but it should be noted that results from different frameworks should not be compared to each other. Overall results suggest that the highest performers are regions in Belgium, Italy, Portugal and the UK. Finally the efficiency results from DEA were reviewed against the treatment options employed in the relevant regions. Our findings show that although a country might be efficient according to DEA and by taking many factors into consideration, it is not necessary that regions within a country use sustainable waste treatment options as it is essential to account for trade and shipment of waste between regions and countries as well.
Q50|Social Cohesion and Carbon Emissions|This paper demonstrates that population diversity and its adverse effect on social cohesion have a robust, causal, positive effect on the carbon emissions of sufficiently rich economies. An examination of geocoded data on emissions from fossil fuels reveals that such results holds at a subnational level as well. The documented effect of diversity operates through its impact on mistrust and on heterogeneity in preferences, which suggests a social dimension that must be contemplated when setting a strategy to curb human’s carbon footprint.
Q50|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved.Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
Q50|Estimating the Value of Life and Injury for Pedestrians Using a Stated Preference Framework|Introduction: The incidence of pedestrian death over the period 2010 to 2014 per 1000,000 in North Cyprus is about 2.5 times that of the EU, with 10.5 times more pedestrian road injuries than deaths. With the prospect of North Cyprus entering the EU, many investments need to be undertaken to improve road safety in order to reach EU benchmarks. Method: We conducted a stated choice experiment to identify the preferences and tradeoffs of pedestrians in North Cyprus for improved walking times, pedestrian costs, and safety. The choice of route was examined using mixed logit models to obtain the marginal utilities associated with each attribute of the routes that consumers chose. These were used to estimate the individuals’ willingness to pay (WTP) to save walking time and to avoid pedestrian fatalities and injuries. We then used the results to obtain community-wide estimates of the value of a statistical life (VSL) saved, the value of an injury (VI) prevented, and the value per hour of walking time saved. Results: The estimate of the VSL was €699,434 and the estimate of VI was €20,077. These values are consistent, after adjusting for differences in incomes, with the median results of similar studies done for EU countries. Conclusions: The ratio of deaths to injuries is much higher for pedestrians than for road accidents, and this is completely consistent with the higher WTP to avoid a pedestrian accident than that to avoid a car accident. Moreover, the value of risk reduction (VRR) is perfectly rational for a given reduction in the probability of a fatality and an injury, which means it is an increasing function of the initial risk level. Practical Applications: Findings provide a set of information on the VRR that is useful in the ex ante appraisal of road projects for specific policy measures.
Q50|Impacts of Sea Level Rise on Economic Growth in Developing Asia|Global sea level rise (SLR) variations have undeniably begun to make an impact on highly vulnerable economies. These impacts of SLR are a key component of the projected economic damage of climate change, an important input to climate change policies and adaptive measures. This paper considers SLR projections and its impact on the economy and includes a consolidation of various related studies. Estimated global gross domestic product (GDP) loss by 2100 ranges from 0.3% to as high as of 9.3% (Hinkel et al. 2014; Pycroft, Abrell, and Ciscar 2015). Climate change impact should be addressed at the global level through a locally focused effort where education and acceptance by all stakeholders are crucial and warranted. Further, this paper tackles several adaptive strategies as a response to SLR which include retreat, accommodation, and protection. The retreat strategy simulates that SLR causes the loss of inundated land and incurs planned relocation (migration) costs above a certain sea level. The accommodation strategy allows usage of vulnerable areas or land and limits damage by flood-proofing or raising structures. Finally, the protection strategy projects that land will be protected from SLR damage by sea walls or other barriers of a certain height. On the other hand, Diaz (2016) estimates a median adaptation cost from migration at 16% of GDP under the least-cost strategy by 2050. In general, the education of and the acceptance by the concerned local community will be crucial in the successful implementation of SLR adaptation strategies, notwithstanding parallel mitigation efforts on a global scale.
Q50|Default Risk, Productivity, and the Environment: Theory and Evidence from U.S. Manufacturing|This paper develops a general equilibrium model with heterogeneous firms to analyze the effect of default risk on production-generated pollution emissions. The model analytically divides the effect of default risk into three distinct effects: the market-size, technology-upgrading, and selection effect. Conceptually, an increase in default risk raises equilibrium borrowing costs, thereby precluding investment in a technology upgrade among a subset of firms (technology-upgrading effect). As a consequence, the economy consists of more numerous (market-size effect) but less productive and more pollution-intensive firms (selection effect). Because the effects are confounding in nature, the effect of default risk on aggregate pollution emissions and emissions intensity is an empirical question. To answer this question, this paper estimates the model’s key parameters using a unique dataset with establishment-level credit scores and a composite measure of pollution emissions for a panel of manufacturing firms in the United States. Using a two-step procedure where default risk is estimated in the first stage, the results indicate that the estimated elasticity of emissions intensity and productivity with respect to default risk is 0.89 and -0.16, respectively. Next, I use the theoretical model to leverage the coefficient estimates to estimate the effect of economy wide default risk on aggregate pollution emissions, demonstrating that default risk increases aggregate emissions and emissions intensity, primarily as a consequence of the technology-upgrading effect. Finally, this paper demonstrates that historical changes in economy-wide default risk can generate economically significant changes in pollution emissions.
Q50|Solving the clinker dilemma with hybrid output-based allocation|Abstract Output-based allocation (OBA) is one of the main options discussed for addressing carbon leakage in emissions trading systems. This paper studies how different OBA designs affect incentives on mitigation and trade in the cement sector. To do so, we develop an analytical model of sector emissions as a function of technical parameters representing abatement levers. We propose a specific design called hybrid OBA, and show that unlike the alternatives, it provides incentives for firms to reduce the carbon intensity of production without offshoring production. We assess the feasibility of hybrid OBA through expert interviews and find that the main barriers identified, including technical and administrative complexities, are manageable. However, hybrid OBA represents a mid-term solution until more robust anti-leakage measures can be introduced, because of two key limitations of OBA in general - it does not provide incentives to reduce the consumption of cement or to accelerate the development of radical low-carbon technologies, both of which are necessary to deliver deep decarbonisation.
Q50|Do pollution abatement expenditures lead to higher productivity growth? Evidence from Greek manufacturing industries|Abstract Several environmental concerns are not in favour of Greece’s sustainable future growth while the implementation of differential environmental policies to appoint the Kyoto protocol’s directives requires firms to balance their capital expenditures and operating costs to pollution abatement initiatives. This paper examines the impact of pollution abatement costs of Greek manufacturing over the period 1993–2006 using an industry-level balanced panel. Empirical results indicate that pollution abatement costs have no significant effect on the productivity of Greek manufacturing industries, on a yearly basis, providing no support on the Porter hypothesis stating that stricter environmental regulation triggers industrial productivity. However, significant changes are observed between energy intensive and energy consuming industries with pollution abatement efforts.
Q50|Scientific literature analysis on big data and internet of things applications on circular economy: a bibliometric study|Abstract Circular economy (CE) is a term that exists since the 1970s and has acquired greater importance in the past few years, partly due to the scarcity of natural resources available in the environment and changes in consumer behavior. Cutting-edge technologies such as big data and internet of things (IoT) have the potential to leverage the adoption of CE concepts by organizations and society, becoming more present in our daily lives. Therefore, it is fundamentally important for researchers interested in this subject to understand the status quo of studies being undertaken worldwide and to have the overall picture of it. We conducted a bibliometric literature review from the Scopus Database over the period of 2006–2015 focusing on the application of big data/IoT on the context of CE. This produced the combination of 30,557 CE documents with 32,550 unique big data/IoT studies resulting in 70 matching publications that went through content and social network analysis with the use of ‘R’ statistical tool. We then compared it to some current industry initiatives. Bibliometrics findings indicate China and USA are the most interested countries in the area and reveal a context with significant opportunities for research. In addition, large producers of greenhouse gas emissions, such as Brazil and Russia, still lack studies in the area. Also, a disconnection between important industry initiatives and scientific research seems to exist. The results can be useful for institutions and researchers worldwide to understand potential research gaps and to focus future investments/studies in the field.
Q50|Output and Pollution Abatement in a U.S. State Emission Function|This study models the relationship between emissions, output and pollution abatement, by defining an emission function in a manner that is consistent with the residual generation mechanism and firms’ optimizing behavior. The relationship is estimated by applying semiparametric estimation and threshold regression on U.S. state-level data from 1973-1994. The results provide a positive nonlinear relationship between emissions and output, rejecting an inverted-U type of relationship between the two (EKC). In the absence of abatement the relationship turns around, verifying the arguments in the literature, that abatement is one of the driving forces for an EKC to emerge.
Q50|Nudging with heterogeneity in terms of environmental sensitivity : a public goods experiment in networks|We propose an experiment to test whether the reaction to a nudge implemented in a network depends on the network structure and on the sensitivity of individuals to the environment. After having elicited the sensitivity of subjects to environmental matters, the subjects played a public goods game in a network. The first ten periods served as a baseline. A nudge (announcement of the socially optimal level of investment) was then implemented both under complete information (the content of the nudge takes individuals’ position into account) and under incomplete information (the nudge cannot rely on individuals’ positions). Nudge implementation induces a higher coordination on the social optimum in the circle network for the most sensitive subjects. In the star network, the targeted nudge induces a decrease in the level of investments for the least sensitive subjects. Thus, nudge implementation should target specific individuals in specific network structures.
Q50|Hyperbolic discounting and the time-consistent solution of three canonical environmental problems|In this paper I propose a time-consistent method of discounting hyperbolically and apply it to three canonical environmental problems: (i) optimal renewable resource use, (ii) the tragedy of the commons, (iii) economic growth and pollution. I then compare results with those for conventional exponential discounting using the normalization that both methods provide the same present value of an infinite constant flow. I show that, irrespective of potentially high initial discount rates, time-consistent hyperbolic discounting leads always to a steady state of maximum yield, or, if the environment enters the utility function, a steady state where the Green Golden Rule applies. While (asymptotic) extinction is a real threat under exponential discounting it is impossible under time-consistent hyperbolic discounting. This result is also confirmed for open access resources. In a model of economic growth and pollution, hyperbolic discounting establishes the Golden Rule of capital accumulation and the Modified Green Golden Rule.
Q50|Consumer inattention, heuristic thinking and the role of energy labels|Energy labels have been introduced in many countries to increase consumers' attention to energy use in purchase decisions of durables. In a discrete-choice experiment among about 5,000 households, we implement randomized information treatments to explore how energy labels influence purchasing decisions. Our results show that adding annual operating cost information to the EU energy label promotes the choice of energy-efficient durables. In addition, we find that a majority of participants value efficiency classes beyond the economic value of the underlying energy use differences. Our results further indicate that displaying operating cost affects choices through two distinct channels: it increases the attention to operating cost and reduces the valuation of efficiency class differences.
Q50|The impact of pollution abatement investments on production technology: new insights from frontier analysis|This paper attempts to estimate the impact of pollution abatement investments on the production technology of firms by pursuing two new directions. First, we take advantage of recent econometric developments in productivity and efficiency analysis and compare the results obtained with two complementary approaches: parametric stochastic frontier analysis and conditional nonparametric frontier analysis. Second, we focus not only on the average effect but also on its heterogeneity across ?rms and over time and search for potential nonlinearities. We provide new results suggesting that such an effect is heterogeneous both within ?rms and over time and indicating that the effect of pollution abatement investments on the production process is not monotonic. These results have relevant implications both for modeling and for the purposes of advice on environmentally friendly policy.
Q50|Optimal Clean Energy R&D Investments Under Uncertainty|The availability of technology plays a major role in the feasibility and costs of climate policy. Nonetheless, technological change is highly uncertain and capital intensive, requiring risky efforts in research and development of clean energy technologies. In this paper, we introduce a two-track method that makes it possible to maintain the rich set of information produced by climate-economy models while introducing the dimension of uncertainty in innovation ef- forts, without succumbing to computation complexity. In particular, we solve the problem of an optimal R&D portfolio by employing Approximate Dynamic Programming, through multiple runs of an integrated assessment model (IAM) for the purpose of computing the value function, and expert elicitation data to quantify the relevant uncertainties. We exemplify the methodology with the problem of evaluating optimal near-term innovation investment portfolios in four key clean energy technologies (solar, biofuels, bioelectricity and personal electric vehicle batteries), taking into account the uncertainty surrounding the effectiveness of innovation to improve the performance of these technologies. We employ an IAM (WITCH) which has a fairly rich description of the energy technologies and experts’ beliefs on future costs for the above-mentioned technologies. Focusing on Europe and its short-term climate policy commitments, we find that batteries in personal transportation dominate the optimal public R&D portfolio. The resulting ranking across technologies is robust to changes in risk-aversion, R&D budget limitation and assump- tions on crowding out of other investments. These results suggest an important upscaling of R&D efforts compared to the recent past.
Q50|Digital and Competing Information Sources: Impact on Environmental Concern und Prospects for Cooperation|Summary: The environmental concern of people in industrialized and developing countries is analysed. Using the 2010-2014 wave of the World Value Survey (WVS), the main purpose of our analysis is to investigate the effect of different information sources on the affective, conative and behavioural components of the environmental concern of people in the developed and developing countries. As independent variables we use a set of economic data as well as information-related variables, including the internet, mobile phones, TV, radio and newspapers. The digital variables of the internet and mobile phones turn out to have a highly significant impact on environmental concern so that digital modernization of countries should have pro-environmental impacts as a side-effect of internet and mobile phone services expansion. With the developing countries catching-up vis-à-vis the OECD countries in the field of mobile phone density and internet density, respectively, one may expect better prospects for cooperation between developed and developing countries since attitudes/the environmental concern of people in developed and developing countries will become more similar – an effect that is reinforced through the income variable.
Q50|The Sustainability Footprint of Institutional Investors|Institutional investors are the single most important class of shareholders in stock markets. Yet, knowledge about their motivations for embedding environmental and social — or more generally — sustainability considerations in their portfolio allocations is at best emerging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to measure the environmental, social, and aggregate sustainability footprint at the institutional investor portfolio-level. We provide evidence that institutional investors with longer investment horizons — as measured by investors’ legal type or portfolio turnover — exhibit significantly better sustainability footprints. We also document that institutional investors with better sustainability footprints generate higher risk-adjusted performance, primarily through a reduction of portfolio risk. Overall, our results are consistent with the view that institutional investors choose sustainability oriented portfolio allocations with the objective of long-term value maximization.
Q50|Going along with the crowd? The importance of group effects for environmental deliberative monetary valuation|Deliberation is expected to enhance the validity and/or the democratic status of stated preference methods. Those objectives are challenged by the potential presence of group effects. Deference to the information publicly announced by others and social pressures to conformity hinder people’s ability to express reflective and independent preferences. Through a split sample contingent valuation survey, we tested whether participating in group discussion affects willingness to pay (WTP). We also test for the presence of group effects. Participants in group discussion stated a higher WTP, and we did not find evidence of group effects. These results are favorable to the deliberative project ***** La valoración deliberativa ha sido propuesta para mejorar la validez y el estatus democrático de los métodos de preferencias declaradas. La presencia de efectos grupales pone en duda la realización de estos objetivos. Falencias informativas y presiones sociales dificultan la expresión autónoma de preferencias. Se aplicó una encuesta de valoración contingente siguiendo un procedimiento cuasi-experimental con el propósito de estimar el efecto de la deliberación en la DAP y detectar la presencia de efectos grupales. Se observó una mayor DAP para los participantes en deliberación, la cual no estuvo acompañada de efectos grupales. Estos resultados son favorables a la deliberación.
Q50|Valuating the environmental impact of debit card payments|Purpose: Consumers in the Netherlands made more than 3.2 billion debit card transactions at points-of-sale in 2015, corresponding to over half of all point-of-sale payments in that year. This study provides insights into the environmental impact of debit card transactions based on a life cycle assessment (LCA). In addition, it identifies several areas within the debit card payment chain where the environmental impact can be reduced. Conclusions: For the first time, the environmental consequences of electronic card payment systems are evaluated. The total environmental impact of debit card transactions in the Netherlands is relatively modest compared to the impact of cash payments, which are the closest substitute of debit card payments at the point-of-sale. Scenario analysis indicates that the environmental impact can be reduced by 44%.
Q50|Is Environmental Kuznets Curve Still Relevant?|The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the relevancy of environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis to the environment problem of today world. According to EKC hypothesis, continuous economic growth eventually reverses the environmental degradation created at the early stage of economic development. This hypothesis emerged in the 1990s and led many serious commentators of economic development to assume that developing countries should focus on economic growth and any environmental problem would be automatically solved by the process of economic growth. The necessary message of EKC was “grow now clean later.” The empirical studies on EKC lead to the conclusion that EKC transition exists only for local pollutants. We found that EKC empirical literature is not econometrically sound and the relationship of many types of pollutants with income has not been tested yet due to the non-availability of data. We also conclude that EKC transition is not Pareto efficient and EKC growth strategy is resource intensive and has huge environmental cost that this planet may not be able to absorb in future. The key recommendations of the study are that developing world should follow different growth path than that of EKC. They should choose a growth path that is not detrimental to the environment so that stock of pollution created by advanced countries can be contained and advanced countries should make green technologies affordable to developing countries
Q50|An efficiency-based concept to assess potential cost and greenhouse gas savings on German dairy farms|This article investigates potential savings of costs and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for a sample of 216 dairy farms in northern Germany using Data Envelopment Analysis. Tradeoffs between a cost-efficient and a GHG-efficient production are identified. For this purpose, an environmental-economic farm model is used, which allows ‘pricing’ the input with market prices and CO2 equivalents, respectively. Uncertainty of CO2 equivalents and volatility of input prices are taken into account and therefore efficiency scores are in the form of ranges. The results reveal that the sample farms are more GHG-efficient than cost-efficient. We estimate potential cost savings between 37.2% and 57.4% and potential savings in GHG emissions between 24.9% and 41.3%. Cost and GHG emission reductions are complementary across a wide range: by moving from the status quo to cost-efficient production, at least 87.5% of the GHG saving potential would be tapped. Unlocking the remaining reduction potential comes at a shadow price (abatement cost) of about €165/t CO2 equivalent. From an input allocative point of view, a change from cost-efficient production to GHG-efficient production requires reductions in nitrogen use and an extension of diesel use. Compared to the sample average and the cost-efficient farms, GHG efficient dairy farms are characterized by a higher share of legumes and a longer effective lifetime of cows.
Q50|The role of risk and trust attitudes in explaining residential energy demand: Evidence from the United Kingdom|Recent research into the determinants of household energy consumption has aimed to incorporate findings from economics, sociology and psychology in order to obtain a more comprehensive understanding of the factors determining energy demand. The current paper contributes to this nascent stream of literature by studying the relationship between risk attitudes, trust propensity and energy consumption at the household level. Drawing on the British Household Panel Survey, a well-known data set in the context of energy studies, I show that trust is negatively correlated with household energy demand, while higher risk tolerance leads to increases in residential energy use. Potential explanations for these findings are investigated, suggesting that risk preferences may be related with overall appliance stock and the size of the rebound effect.
Q50|Is there a price premium for energy efficiency labels? Evidence from the Introduction of a Label in Korea|This study examines the price premium from Korea's Energy Efficiency Grade Label. The Korean government recently began energy certification of televisions, providing a setting to analyze a possible price effect of the new label. Hedonic regression results seem to show that a price premium exists for products with the Energy Efficiency Grade Label. However, potential unobserved heterogeneity is a concern. Difference-in-difference and fixed-effects models are used to capture the net effect of the label by controlling for time and product differences. The results suggest that any price premium does not result from the energy efficiency label itself. Instead, energy-efficient products already had higher prices before the introduction of the energy efficiency label. The finding turns our attention to the importance of careful design of labeling programs.
Q50|Price volatility and residential electricity decisions: Experimental evidence on the convergence of energy generating source|The recent trend in most developed countries has been toward greater reliance on renewable or “green” energy sources. This paper investigates how price volatility in residential electricity rates impacts consumers' preferences for green power. Using a choice-based experiment, we present respondents with choice scenarios that feature two electric utility plans: (i) a conventional plan where electricity is generated from either coal or natural gas, and (ii) a green plan where electricity is generated renewably from either wind or solar. We then systematically vary the monthly price volatility of each plan across choice scenarios. Our results suggest that price volatility in monthly rates significantly impacts respondents' plan choices and, specifically, their decision to adopt the green power plan. In particular, increased volatility in the green power plan reduces the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan, while increased volatility in the conventional plan increases the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan. Moreover, the documented effects of price volatility are robust across different price premiums for the green power plan.
Q50|CO2 content of electricity losses|Countries are implementing policies to develop greener energy markets worldwide. In Europe, the ¨2030 Energy and Climate Package¨ asks for further reductions of green house gases, renewable sources integration, and energy efficiency targets. But the polluting intensity of electricity may be different in average than when considering market inefficiencies, in particular losses, and therefore the implemented policy must take those differences into account. Precisely, herein we study the importance in terms of CO2 emissions the extra amount of energy necessary to cover losses. With this purpose we use Spanish market and system data with hourly frequency from 2011 to 2013. Our results show that indeed electricity losses significantly explain CO2 emissions, with a higher CO2 emissions rate when covering losses than the average rate of the system. Additionally, we find that the market closing technologies used to cover losses have a positive and significant impact on CO2 emissions: when polluting technologies (coal or combined cycle) close the market, the impact of losses on CO2 emissions is high compared to the rest of technologies (combined heat and power, renewables or hydropower). To the light of these results we make some policy recommendations to reduce the impact of losses on CO2 emissions.
Q50|What are the determinants of investment in environmental R&D?|To face the challenges posed by climate change, environmental R&D and innovation are critical factors if we hope to cut emissions; yet, investment in environmental R&D remains below the social optimum. The aim of this paper is to analyse the determinants of investment in environmental innovation and to detect the differences, if any, with the determinants of investment in general innovation. In addition, this paper examines the relationship between environmental innovation R&D expenditure and a range of policy instruments, including environmental regulation and other policy measures including R&D subsidies and environmental taxes. The empirical analysis is carried out for 22 manufacturing sectors in Spain for the period 2008–2013. To overcome problems of data availability, we construct a comprehensive database from different surveys. The main implications from our results are (1). Managerial strategy appears as a relevant driver of environmental R&D investments. (2) The establishment of a policy mix between environmental, energy and technological regulatory measures is recommended. (3) The promotion of self-regulation through actions that encourage companies to follow a policy that affects their energy efficiency and is environmentally friendly.
Q50|Environmental policies and productivity growth: Evidence across industries and firms|This paper investigates the impact of changes in environmental policy stringency on industry- and firm-level productivity growth in a panel of OECD countries. To test the strong version of the Porter Hypothesis (PH), we extend a neo-Schumpeterian productivity model to allow for effects of environmental policies. We use a new environmental policy stringency (EPS) index and let the effect of countries׳ environmental policies vary with the pollution intensity of the industry and with the countries’ and firms’ technological advancement. A tightening of environmental policy is associated with a short-term increase in industry-level productivity growth in the most technologically-advanced countries. This effect diminishes with the distance to the global productivity frontier, eventually becoming insignificant. For the average firm, no evidence of PH is found. However, the most productive firms see a temporary boost in productivity growth, while the less productive ones experience a productivity slowdown.
Q50|The social costs of second-best policies: Evidence from agricultural GHG mitigation|This paper investigates the social costs of second-best agricultural greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation policies. Adjustments along the land use and input intensity margins are represented within a regionalized optimization model of California crop production calibrated to economic and agronomic information. Second-best policies relying on spatially aggregated GHG emission factors lead to small abatement efficiency losses, while policies targeting a single GHG lead to moderate losses. In contrast, policies targeting a single input entail large abatement efficiency losses, which nonetheless can be reduced by combining instruments.
Q50|How do incidental emotions impact pro-environmental behavior? Evidence from the dictator game|The aim of this paper is to study the impact of emotions on monetary donations to pro-environmental causes. We design a three-stage laboratory experiment. In the first stage, participants have the possibility to receive an endowment from an effort game. In the second stage, emotions are induced in the participants. Finally, participants play a dictator game in which the recipient is an environmental Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). We show that incidental emotions do not prompt donations themselves, but that certain emotional states (“Awe”) can increase the amount donated.
Q50|Luring others into climate action: coalition formation games with threshold and spillover effects|We explore the prospects of cooperation in a threshold public bad game. The experiment’s setup allows us to investigate the issue of effort coordination between signatories and non-signatories to a climate agreement under the threat of a catastrophe. Motivated actors may signal willingness to lead by committing a share of investments to a ‘clean’ but less remunerative project. The game is parametrized such that the externality cannot be fully internalized by the coalition, so that some effort on the part of the second-movers is required if the catastrophic losses are to be avoided. We manipulate both the relative returns of two investments and the extent to which the gains from leadership diffuse to second-movers. We find that the likelihood of reaching a sizeable coalition of early investors in the clean technology is higher when the benefits are appropriated by the coalition. Conversely, spillovers can entice second-movers’ adoption.
Q50|Novel IPM Intervention for West Africa: Smallholder Farmers’ Preferences for Biological versus Synthetic Control Strategies for Cowpea Pests| Cowpeas are a critical crop for food and income security for millions of people in Africa. Insect pests, however, are a major production constraint causing over 50% yield losses. Farmers indiscriminately apply expensive synthetic pesticides in spite of attendant health and environmental risks. Recognizing that current chemical control methods are costly and unsustainable for resource-poor farmers, an innovative integrated pest management strategy based on biocontrol agents is being explored for West Africa. Therefore, the objective of this study was to predict potential adoption of the innovative biocontrol strategy by determining important factors that explain farmers’ pest control decisions. To this end, we designed a choice experiment survey for 505 cowpea farmers in Benin. A conditional logit model was estimated. Survey findings indicate that farmers are aware of health hazards but persistently apply chemical pesticides out of necessity. Also, model results reveal that important factors driving pest control decisions include costs, labor, and potential yield losses. Finally, we show that social norms could be leveraged to enhance adoption of the biocontrol method. These findings have promising implications for on-going efforts to develop and disseminate sustainable biocontrol strategies that are eco-friendly and cost effective for smallholder farmers.
Q50|Long-term financial incentive of environmental responsibility -- socially responsible investing and firm cost of capital| We investigate the long-term financial incentives of corporate environmental responsibility by examining whether an environmentally responsible firm benefits from a lower cost of equity capital, focusing on a particular channel: sustainable and responsible investing (SRI). Using treatment effect models, we test whether investments from SRI mutual funds with environmental screening criteria impact firm cost of equity capital. We find that accounting for interaction between firm and non-shareholder stakeholders, and potential agency costs associated with certain environmentally responsible activities of the firm, SRI investing may facilitate the alignment of firm environmental and financial goals.
Q50|Agri-environmental subsidies and French suckler cow farms’ technical efficiency accounting for GHGs| In this article we assess the impact of agri-environmental subsidies on farms’ technical efficiency, when the latter is measured with and without accounting for greenhouse gases (GHGs). The application is to a sample of beef cattle farms located in grassland areas in France during the 1993-2013 period. In a first stage we calculate robust technical efficiency accounting for both good output (meat) and bad output (GHGs). In a second stage we regress the different technical efficiency scores on a set of explanatory variables including agri-environmental subsidies as an amount received by the farmer related per livestock unit. The results indicate that these subsidies had a positive impact on farms’ technical efficiency among the farmers that have adopted agri-environmental measures. This is the first work on the effect of subsidies on technical efficiency including environmental outputs, and it does not confirm the negative effect generally found in existing studies based on classic technical efficiency.
Q50|A critical review of multi-criteria decision making in protected areas| [EN]Multi-criteria analysis in collaborative decision making can provide a useful tool to im-prove the governance in protected areas with strong conflicts between stakeholders. This paper offers an in-depth review about MCDM methods in protected areas. The analysis considers the topics Land Use, Management, Species, and Zoning and it is based in two dimensions: Methods and Participation. Topics and MCDM methods and Topics and Participation were significantly related and contrasted using a Chi-squared test, respectively. We have identified two groups by topics: Zoning and Species use continuous non participative methods and Land Use and Management use discrete methods with increasing participation. [ES]El análisis multi-criterio para toma de decisiones colaborativa ofrece una herramienta útil para mejorar la gobernanza en áreas protegidas, con fuertes conflictos de intereses entre agentes. Este artículo ofrece una revisión en profundidad sobre métodos MCDM en áreas protegidas. El análisis con-sidera los temas Uso de la tierra, Gestión, Especies y Zonificación, y se basa en dos dimensiones: Mé-todos y Participación. Los Temas y las Técnicas MCDM y los Temas y la Participación están significa-tivamente correlacionados respectivamente según un test Chi-cuadrado. Hemos identificado dos grupos: Especies y Zonificación usan métodos continuos no participativos y Uso de la tierra y Gestión, utilizan métodos discretos donde la participación es creciente.
Q50|Sensitivity to energy technology costs: A multi-model comparison analysis|In the present paper we use the output of multiple expert elicitation surveys on the future cost of key low-carbon technologies and use it as input of three Integrated Assessment models, GCAM, MARKAL_US and WITCH. By means of a large set of simulations we aim to assess the implications of these subjective distributions of technological costs over key model outputs. We are able to detect what sources of technology uncertainty are more influential, how this differs across models, and whether and how results are affected by the time horizon, the metric considered or the stringency of the climate policy. In unconstrained emission scenarios, within the range of future technology performances considered in the present analysis, the cost of nuclear energy is shown to dominate all others in affecting future emissions. Climate-constrained scenarios, stress the relevance, in addition to that of nuclear energy, of biofuels, as they represent the main source of decarbonization of the transportation sector and bioenergy, since the latter can be coupled with Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) to produce negative emissions.
Q50|Qualitative Scenario Building for Post-carbon Cities|In defining the transition towards a post-carbon future, understanding the needs and determinants for policy priorities in different types of cities will help tailor a common roadmap that can be adopted under various socio-economic contexts. This paper provides an analysis of results collected in a participatory scenario building exercise undertaken within a research project on post-carbon urban futures (Post-Carbon Cities of Tomorrow, POCACITO). It is based on local workshops organised in nine European case study cities, which employed a three-step methodology consisting of an initial assessment, vision building and backcasting exercises. All exercises had a strong focus on the inclusion of stakeholders. Comparison of outcomes from the visions and scenarios resulting from these workshops provides insights on the drivers that determine different priorities in policy action for cities working to transition toward post-carbon futures. Results from the case study cities show similar elements in the strategies proposed by stakeholders, focusing primarily on urban projects for energy efficiency and the transition to non-fossil energy resources. However, the specific mix of strategies envisaged for each city has been influenced by local issues, such as the geographical location or the size, as well as different points of departure with regards to emission reductions and sustainability strategies already achieved.
Q50|Tipping Points and Loss Aversion in International Environmental Agreements|We study the impact of loss-aversion and the threat of catastrophic damages, which we jointly call threshold concerns, on international environmental agreements. We aim to understand whether a threshold for dangerous climate change is as an effective coordination device for countries to overcome the global free-riding problem and abate sufficiently to avoid disaster. We focus on loss-averse countries negotiating either under the threat of either high environmental damages (loss domain), or low damages (gain domain). Under symmetry, that is when countries display identical degrees of threshold concern, we show that such beliefs have a positive effect on reducing the emission levels of both signatories to the treaty and non-signatories, leading to higher global welfare and weakly larger coalitions of signatories. We then introduce asymmetry, by allowing countries to differ in the degree of concern about the threat of disaster. We show that stable coalitions are mostly formed by the countries with higher threshold concern. When enough countries having no threshold concern could cause the coalition size to diminish, regardless of the other countries have strong or mild threshold concerns.
Q50|Agri-environmental subsidies and French suckler cow farms’ technical efficiency accounting for GHGs| In this article we assess the impact of agri-environmental subsidies on farms’ technical efficiency, when the latter is measured with and without accounting for greenhouse gases (GHGs). The application is to a sample of beef cattle farms located in grassland areas in France during the period 1993-2013. In a first stage we calculate robust technical efficiency accounting for both good output (meat) and bad output (GHGs). In a second stage we regress the different technical efficiency scores on a set of explanatory variables including agri-environmental subsidies as an amount received by the farmer related per livestock unit. The results indicate that these subsidies had a positive impact on farms’ technical efficiency among the farmers that have adopted agri-environmental measures. This is the first work on the effect of subsidies on technical efficiency including environmental outputs, and it does not confirm the negative effect generally found in existing studies based on classic technical efficiency.
Q50|Impact of different irrigation systems on water quality in peri-urban areas of Gujarat, India| The ever-growing population of India, along with the increasing competition for water for productive uses in different sectors – especially irrigated agriculture and related local water systems and drainage – poses a challenge in an effort to improve water quality and sanitation. In rural and peri-urban settings, where agriculture is one of the main sources of livelihood, the type of water use in irrigated agriculture has complex interactions with drinking water and sanitation. In particular, the multi-purpose character of irrigation and drainage infrastructure creates several interlinks between water, sanitation (WATSAN) and agriculture and there is a competition for water quantity between domestic water use and irrigated agriculture. This study looks at the determinants of the microbiological quality of stored drinking water among households residing in areas where communities use different types of irrigation water. The study used multiple tube fermentation method ‘Most Probable Number (MPN) technique, a WHO recommended technique, to identify thermotolerant fecal coliforms and E. coli in water in the laboratory (WHO 1993). Overall, we found that the microbiological water quality was poor. The stored water generally had very high levels of Escherichia coli (E. coli) contamination, 80% of the households had water in storage that could not be considered potable as per the World Health Organization (WHO) standards, and 73% of the households were using a contaminated water source. The quality of household storage water was largely unaffected by the major household socioeconomic characteristics, such as wealth, education level or social status. Households using surface water for irrigation had poor drinking water quality, even after controlling for hygiene, behavioral and community variables. Drinking water quality was positively impacted by proper storage and water treatment practices, such as reverse osmosis. Hygiene and sanitation indicators had mixed impacts on the quality of drinking water, and the impacts were largely driven by hygiene behavior rather than infrastructures. Community open defaecation and high village-household density deteriorates household storage water quality.
Q50|The Monitoring Of Carbon Monoxide Air Pollutant, As Part Of The Air Quality Management. Case Study: The Olt County, Romania|The processes that cause changes to the natural characteristics of the airhave a strong dynamic; this being a reason why the environmental study must have sufficientquantitive and qualitative data, in order to meet the appropriate requirements of the spatial andtemporal representation. This paper deals with issues of the air quality management in the OltCounty, for the pollution indicator - carbon monoxide (CO). The paper presents the mainfeatures of this pollutant, the emission sources and the monitoring for 2014, the year with thelowest emission of CO, for the period 2008 - 2014, in terms of the annual, monthly and dailyaverage concentrations, in relation to the causes that diminish or emphasize the values. In theend of the paper, the authors present the conclusions based on the data interpretations, providedafter the monitoring of the pollution indicator - CO.
Q50|Assessing the Actual Stage of Social and Environmental Reporting of the Companies Listed at Bucharest Stock Exchange|Transparency is becoming a worldwide necessity determined by the increasing demand of responsible actors regarding certain justification related to the impact of different entities towards the environment. Within an economic environment described by complexity, continuous change and development our paper aims to provide an image of contemporary reporting practices in a developing country with regard to the inclusion of social and environmental aspects within reporting practices. This paper aims at examining the extent to which the Bucharest Stock Exchange listed companies belonging to premium and standard categories report on CSR and the way stock price evolution can be explained through financial profitability, size, leverage, industry and CSR disclosures. The results achieved show that there is a concern among Romanian listed companies to include environmental and social disclosures in their reporting practices during 2001-2014 analyzed period, a significant number of companies reporting on CSR aspects.
Q50|¿Parques de papel? Áreas protegidas y deforestación en Colombia|Este documento estudia el efecto de las áreas protegidas -naturales y étnicas- en la deforestación en Colombia utilizando imágenes satelitales de deforestación para el periodo 2001-2012. El análisis combina dos metodologías: regresiones discontinuas en las áreas declaradas antes de 2001 (largo plazo) y diferencias en diferencias en las más recientes (corto plazo). Los resultados muestran que en general las áreas protegidas han sido efectivas a la hora de frenar la deforestación. Estos efectos se mantienen y en el largo plazo se amplifican en zonas densamente pobladas y cercanas a las carreteras, lo cual sugiere que, en un contexto en el que abundan las actividades ilegales, las áreas protegidas son menos efectivas cuando la presencia del Estado es limitada. ******ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the effects of protected areas in Colombia using forest loss satellite-imagery for the period 2001-2012. We combine two strategies: regression discontinuity for protected areas created before 2001 (long run) and differences in differences for areas create afterwards (short run). Overall, results indicate that protected areas have a significant effect at reducing deforestation. These effects hold and are amplified in the long run near densely populated areas and roads, which suggests that, in a context of abundant illegal activities, protected areas are limited by weak state presence.
Q50|The Misty Grail: The Search for a Comprehensive Measure of Development and the Reasons for GDP Primacy|" type=""main""> Recent decades have seen a flurry of new indicators to measure economic progress, but none of them has succeeded in replacing GDP. This article seeks to explain this outcome and to contribute to the debate about composite indicators versus a dashboard approach. To this end, it reviews some of the most popular alternatives to GDP (the Human Development Index, the Genuine Progress Indicator, the Happy Planet Index, and an environmentally corrected GDP), focusing on their conceptual foundations rather than on their statistical consistency as most of the literature does. It is shown that most of these measures are theoretically inconsistent; the exception is the environmentally corrected GDP, but since this too has failed to replace GDP, inconsistency must be only one reason behind the limited use of alternative measures. The author argues that the main reason for GDP's primacy is that GDP is better suited to reflect the goals of capitalist market economies. This implies that constructing composite indicators as alternatives to GDP will be pointless as long as the current preference system has not changed to include environmental or social goals. The author also suggests that for this purpose a dashboard approach, which provides different social groups with intelligible quantitative instruments, may be preferable to the use of composite indicators."
Q50|Economic Targets And Loss-Aversion In International Environmental Cooperation|In the standard emission problem, each country’s ruling party decides on an optimal level of emissions by analyzing the cost and benefit to the country. However, such policy decisions are often influenced by political parties’ incentives to be elected. Voters tend to give higher priority to economic issues than they do to environmental ones. As a result, political parties have additional incentives to reach a critical economic benefit level, at a cost of higher emission level, in order to satisfy voters’ expectations in economic issues. Therefore, this study explores the implications of political parties being averse to insufficient economic performance relative to a critical economic target level on sustaining an international environmental agreement on emission levels. In doing so, we allow countries to have asymmetric concerns about economic targets, as well as asymmetric technology levels. We find that stronger concerns about economic targets deter the most cooperative emission levels countries could jointly sustain. Furthermore, technological asymmetry could either deepen or offset this impact. These results suggest that efforts on achieving substantial international environmental agreements should be supported at the citizen level to eliminate the adverse effects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q50|Do Constitutions Matter? The Effects of Constitutional Environmental Rights Provisions on Environmental Outcomes|We use a novel data set within an instrumental variables framework to test whether the presence and legal strength of constitutional environmental rights are related to environmental outcomes. The outcome variables include Yale’s Environmental Performance Index and some of its components. The analysis accounts for the possibility that a country which takes steps to protect the environment might also be more likely to constitutionalize environmental rights. Controls include: (1) gross domestic product per capita (2) whether the country is a party to the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; (3) rule of law; (4) population density; and (5) exogenous geographic effects. The inclusion of income means that our study is directly related to the Environmental Kuznets Curve literature. We find that constitutions do indeed matter for positive environmental outcomes, which suggests that we should not only pay attention to the incentives confronting polluters and resource users, but also to the incentives and constraints confronting those policymakers who initiate, monitor, and enforce environmental policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q50|Slow living and the green economy|The current paper explores the relationship between some relatively new concepts in the field of economics - slow living, slow food, slow writing and the green economy. The goal of the paper is twofold - discussing the possibilities opened by these exciting new concepts, in terms of an increase in the quality of life combined with an environmentally sustainable lifestyle, as well as ascertaining what the concepts may entail in the context in which the effects of the recent economic crisis may make green and slow living seem like a distant dream. It is this holistic view that we shall attempt to enlarge upon in the paper, with the avowed purpose of weighing out the possibilities presented in the complicated, crisis-fraught global context.
Q50|Strategic technology policy as a supplement to renewable energy standards|In many regions, renewable energy targets are a primary decarbonization policy. Most of the same jurisdictions also subsidize the manufacturing and/or deployment of renewable energy technologies, some being sufficiently aggressive as to engender WTO disputes. We consider a downstream energy-using product produced competitively but not traded across regions, such as electricity or transportation. A renewable energy technology is available, provided by a limited set of upstream suppliers who exercise market power. With multiple market failures (emissions externality and imperfect competition), renewable market share mandates as the binding climate policy, and international trade in equipment, the stage is set to examine rationales for green industrial policy. Subsidies may be provided downstream to energy suppliers and/or upstream to technology suppliers; each has tradeoffs. Subsidies can offset underprovision of the renewable alternative by the upstream suppliers, but they allow dirty generation to expand as the portfolio standard becomes less costly to fulfill. Downstream subsidies raise all upstream profits and crowd out foreign emissions. Upstream subsidies increase domestic upstream market share but expand emissions globally. In our two-region model, strategic subsidies chosen noncooperatively can be optimal from a global perspective, if both regions value emissions at the global cost of carbon. But if the regions sufficiently undervalue global emissions, restricting the use of upstream subsidies can enhance welfare.
Q50|Identification and Estimation of the Environmental Kuznets Curve: Pairwise Differencing to Deal with Nonlinearity and Nonstationarity|We propose an estimation strategy that accounts for two major problems raised in the empirical literature testing for the prevalence of the inverted U-shaped relation between environmental degradation and economic activity, namely the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) hypothesis. First, we use pairwise differencing to properly identify the income effect, and to make use of estimators that likely suffer less from heterogeneity, cross-sectional dependence, and other common factor problems. Second, we apply nonlinear-nonstationary parametric and non-parametric estimation techniques to estimate the pairwise differenced regressions, since panel unit root tests indicate that our income and emission series are integrated of order one. Our results for regional CO2 emissions systematically yield positive income effects while the estimated time effects do not compensate for these income effects sufficiently to generate an inverted U-shape for CO2 emissions.
Q50|From fossil fuels to renewables: The role of electricity storage|Electricity storage represents a solution to curb carbon emissions by enabling more use of intermittent renewable energy. Our goal is to empirically analyze the determinants of innovation in electricity storage and its role in fostering technological innovations in renewable and conventional electricity generation. Using a global firm-level data set of electricity patents from 1963 to 2011, we find that better electricity storage promotes innovation not only in renewable energy but also in conventional technologies. Specifically, our estimates show that an additional storage patent increases the probability to apply for patents in renewable energy and efficiency-improving fossil fuel technologies two years from now by 1.09% and 0.65%, respectively. This implies that improved electricity storage technologies can boost the energy efficiency of conventional, fossil fuel-fired power plants as well as increase the use of renewable electricity. Thus, the ability of electricity storage to curb carbon emissions depends on: the competitiveness of renewable energy against conventional electricity generation, and conventional power generation mix as storage increases fossil-fuel efficiency and reduces ramping costs.
Q50|Airline fuel usage and carbon emissions: Determining factors|Using annual data on individual US airlines over the 1995â€“2015 period, this paper presents regression results relating an airline's total fuel usage to seven variables: the available ton miles of capacity (passengers plus freight and mail) provided by the airline; the average seat capacity of its aircraft, average stage length (flight distance); average load factor (measured by weight); the average vintage (construction year) of its aircraft; the percentage of the airline's flights that are delayed; and the average annual fuel price. The results show how fuel usage and carbon emissions depend on a small set of crucial variables. The estimated fuel-price effect allows the emissions impact of an optimal emissions charge to be computed, and the estimated delay effect shows the emissions impact of an industry-wide reduction in flight delays. The regression model is generated from a theoretical framework.
Q50|Trade and the Environment: New Methods, Measurements, and Results|We review recent research linking international trade to the environment, with a focus on new results and methods. The review is given structure by a novel decomposition linking changes in emissions to changes in productive activity at the plant, firm, industry, and national levels. Although some new results have emerged from the application of a Melitz-style approach to trade and the environment, the full potential of this approach has not yet been realized. We discuss existing empirical and theoretical work, introduce three new hypotheses, and suggest paths for future researchers to follow.
Q50|Population Growth and Carbon Emissions|We provide evidence that lower fertility can simultaneously increase income per capita and lower carbon emissions, eliminating a trade-off central to most policies aimed at slowing global climate change. We estimate the effect of lower fertility on carbon emissions accounting for the fact that changes in fertility patterns affect carbon emissions through three channels: total population, the age structure of the population, and economic output. Our analysis proceeds in two steps. First, we estimate a version of the STIRPAT equation on an unbalanced yearly panel of cross-country data from 1950-2010. We demonstrate that the coefficient on population is nearly seven times larger than the coefficient on income per capita and that this difference is statistically significant. Thus, regression results imply that 1% slower population growth could be accompanied by an increase in income per capita of nearly 7% while still lowering carbon emissions. In the second part of our analysis, we use a recently constructed economic-demographic model of Nigeria to estimate the effect of lower fertility on carbon emissions accounting for the impacts of fertility on population growth, population age structure, and income per capita. The model was constructed to estimate the effect of lower fertility on economic growth, making it well-suited for this application. We find that by 2100 C.E., moving from the medium to the low variant of the UN fertility projection leads to 35% lower yearly emissions and 15% higher income per capita. These results suggest that population policies could be a part of the approach to combating global climate change.
Q50|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
Q50|Der Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien im Föderalismus und Mehrebenensystem – Neoklassische und neoinstitutionalistische Perspektiven|"Einen Kern der Energiewende bildet der Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien in Deutschland. Be-sonders im Strombereich greifen dabei EU-, Bundes-, Landes- und Kommunalpolitik sowie bürgerschaftliches Engagement eng ineinander, allerdings nicht immer reibungslos. Ziel dieser Studie ist es, bestimmte wissenschaftliche Entscheidungsgrundlagen politischen Handelns im Rahmen der Energiewende offenzulegen und zu reflektieren. Dazu werden zunächst energiebezogene Grundlagen und eine überblickshafte Bestandsaufnahme von Politik und Governance im Untersuchungsfeld vorgenommen. Diese dient aber zugleich der Reflexion normativer Theorien und politischer Gestaltungsempfehlungen. In einem zweiten Teil wird daher bezogen auf den Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien eine Gegenüberstellung der neoklassisch-wohlfahrtsökonomischen Theorie des Föderalismus einerseits und des mit dem Namen Elinor und Vincent Ostrom verknüpften polyzentrischen oder auch Mehr-Ebenen-Governance Ansatzes vorgenommen. Politikempfehlungen in der Tradition Ostroms betonen die „gelebte Energiewende"", also einen Prozess, der im gesellschaftlichen Diskurs beständig angepasst werden muss. Dies steht in einem Spannungsfeld zum neoklassisch geprägten Denken in Zuständen und Ergebnissen und seiner Fokussierung auf Effizienzfragen (z.B. Ausbauziel mit bestimmten (Neben-)wirkungen). Gewisse Berührungspunkte bestehen aber insofern, wie von neoklassischer Seite auch heterogene Bürgerpräferenzen und die Innovationsvorteile des Labor- bzw. Bottom-up-Föderalismus berücksichtigt werden. Berührungspunkte bestehen auch in dem Sinne, dass von beiden bestimmte Schwachstellen und – i.d.R. empirische – Erklärungsdefizite in der derzeitigen Forschung anerkannt werden."
Q50|Status concern and the exploitation of common pool renewable resources|We examine the impact of social status concern in a common pool renewable resource oligopoly. A small number of players share access to a common pool resource and sell their production in a common market where they are oligopolists. We depart from the mainstream literature on common pool resource oligopolies by considering that each player cares about her social status. We allow for two channels to impact a player's welfare: harvest and profits. Under the first channel, a player has a bump in her utility when her harvest is larger than the average harvest of the rest of the players. In this case we show that the presence of this channel exacerbates the tragedy of the commons. Under the second channel, a player enjoys a bump in her utility if she manages to earn more profits than the average profits of the other players. In this case we show that social status concern may temporarily alleviate the tragedy of the commons: it results in a decrease of extraction over an interval of stock sizes.
Q50|Who invests more in advanced abatement technology? Theory and evidence|We study firm investment in abatement technology under a heterogeneous-firm framework. We find that more-productive firms make more (less) investment in abatement technology if investment and productivity are complements (substitutes). Under linear demand, firms abatement investments exhibit an inverted U-shape with respect to productivity level. This finding is in contrast to results in existing studies. We also find that in response to tightened environmental regulations, more-productive firms raise their respective investments in abatement technology, whereas less-productive firms do the opposite. More-productive firms have lower pollution emission intensity. The key theoretical predictions are confirmed by empirical tests using Chinese data.
Q50|The Clean Development Mechanism in a world carbon market|This paper discusses the role of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) in the market for carbon quotas and countries' commitments to reduce their carbon emission levels. We show that the CDM contributes to an efficient funding of clean technology investments in least developed countries. However, the CDM is not neutral on the global level of carbon emissions as it entices countries to raise their emission caps. The CDM may also make inappropriate the inclusion of any country that takes no emission abatement commitment. It can even make inefficient a country's decision to commit to an emission target. The implications of the presence of non-additional projects are also analyzed.
Q50|¿Parques de papel? Áreas protegidas y deforestación en Colombia|Este documento estudia el efecto de las áreas protegidas -naturales y étnicas- en la deforestación en Colombia utilizando imágenes satelitales de deforestación para el periodo 2001-2012. El análisis combina dos metodologías: regresiones discontinuas en las áreas declaradas antes de 2001 (largo plazo) y diferencias en diferencias en las más recientes (corto plazo). Los resultados muestran que en general las áreas protegidas han sido efectivas a la hora de frenar la deforestación. Estos efectos se mantienen y en el largo plazo se amplifican en zonas densamente pobladas y cercanas a las carreteras, lo cual sugiere que, en un contexto en el que abundan las actividades ilegales, las áreas protegidas son menos efectivas cuando la presencia del Estado es limitada. ******ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the effects of protected areas in Colombia using forest loss satellite-imagery for the period 2001-2012. We combine two strategies: regression discontinuity for protected areas created before 2001 (long run) and differences in differences for areas create afterwards (short run). Overall, results indicate that protected areas have a significant effect at reducing deforestation. These effects hold and are amplified in the long run near densely populated areas and roads, which suggests that, in a context of abundant illegal activities, protected areas are limited by weak state presence.
