Q51|Decoupling Values Of Agricultural Externalities According To Scale: A Spatial Hedonic Approach In Brittany|Agricultural activities jointly generate various externalities. Hedonic pricing method allows for their valuation. Previous hedonic studies have estimated the value of the externalities generated by a given agricultural activity in a single parameter. Based on simple theoretical model, we illustrate that this parameter captures the sum of the different externalities generated by the activity. We explain that this parameter can differ at different spatial scale. Using specific spatial econometric models with spatial lags on the explanatory variables, we distinguish between the value of infra-municipal agricultural externalities and the value of extra-municipal agricultural externalities with larger spatial range arising from the same agricultural source. Among the estimated models, the spatial lag of the exogenous variable and the general nested spatial models are selected as the best models. We find that swine activities present negative effects at all scales whereas dairy cattle activities, including grassland management, present negative effects at the infra-municipality scale but positive spillovers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q51|Comparing Pollution Where You Live and Play: A Hedonic Analysis of Enterococcus in the Long Island Sound|Hedonic property value methods typically examine the effect of water quality on home prices by focusing on waters nearest a home. While this captures any aesthetic values households may hold for water quality improvements, it may not fully reflect recreational values, particularly for nearby residents that do not live on the waterfront. This study is the first to compare the conventional approach of examining how property prices vary with the quality of waters closest to a home, versus water quality levels at the closest point of access for recreation (i.e., the beach). Using spatial econometric models, we conduct a hedonic analysis of residences within five kilometers of the Long Island Sound. Due to an aging infrastructure, high levels of precipitation often lead to sewage overflows, resulting in high counts of enterococcus – a bacterial indicator of fecal pollution. We also estimate the effect of subsequent beach closures, which we posit as an alternative and more salient signal of local water quality to residents. In line with previous literature, we find that enterococcus levels at waters nearest a home negatively affect home prices within 1 kilometer. However, this effect becomes insignificant when controlling for levels at the nearest beach. In contrast, enterococcus at the closest beach yields a negative 0.03% to 0.02% elasticity that extends 2.5 km. Controlling for beach closures suggests negative effects as far as 3.5 km from beaches. Our findings demonstrate that the impact of water quality on home prices may extend further than previously suggested by the literature, at least at large iconic waterbodies like the Sound.
Q51|Political connections and firm pollution behaviour : An empirical study|A firm's top manager and a government official may be connected due to special circumstances. This social relationship or political connection may provide industrial polluters with protection or a “pollution shelter” which could lead to severe environmental deterioration. This paper aims to examine the link between political connections and firms’ pollution discharges by using Chinese data. Empirical results show that political connections are the institutional origin for firms to adopt strategic pollution discharges. Government officials who are young, of low education, promoted locally and in office for a relatively long time are more likely to build political connections with polluters. This phenomenon results in inadequate enforcement of regulation and emission control. The pollution discharges of politically connected firms also vary considerably due to firm heterogeneity. This study also shows that pollution shelter effects caused by political connections are more obvious in the central and western regions, prefecture cities and capital-intensive industries.
Q51|Long-term macroeconomic effects of climate change: A cross-country analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables - defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we find that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04oC per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01oC per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary significantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
Q51|Valuing the Environmental Benefits of Canals Using House Prices|The canal and waterway network in Britain provides a potentially valuable recreational and environmental amenity. In this paper, we estimate the value of this amenity based on how much households are willing to pay through housing to live close to the canal network, a well-established and theoretically grounded method in the urban and environmental economics literature. To deal with potential omitted confounding factors in our house price regressions we adopt two strategies. First we conduct a cross-sectional analysis, but control for local area fixed effects so we estimate from marginal differences in distance from homes to canals within small geographical neighbourhoods. Secondly, we apply a difference in difference method to analyse the effect of the restoration of the Droitwich canals in the later 2000s. Both methods yield similar conclusions. There is a price premium for living close to a canal, but this is very localised - around 3.4% in 2016 within 100m and zero beyond that. The implication is that the effect is driven predominantly by canal-side properties and others with a direct outlook on the canals or immediate access. The premium fell substantially from the pre-recession to post recession periods. We also find evidence that canal-side locations are attractive for developers, with a much higher proportion of new-build sales within 100m of canals relative to elsewhere - a 5.9% increase on a 7.8% baseline. Some back of the envelope calculations indicate the land value uplift from the canal network was around £0.8-£0.9 billion in 2016.
Q51|The risk-adjusted carbon price|We use perturbation methods to derive a rule for the optimal risk-adjusted social cost of carbon (SCC) that incorporates the effects of uncertainties associated with climate and the economy from a calibrated DSGE model. We allow for different aversions to risk and intertemporal fluctuations, convex damages, uncertainties in economic growth, atmospheric carbon, climate sensitivity and damages, their correlations, and distributions that are skewed in the longer run to capture long-run climate feedbacks. Our non-certainty-equivalent rule for the SCC incorporates precaution, risk insurance, and climate sensitivity and damage rate hedging effects to deal with future economic and climatic and damage risks.
Q51|Utilities Included: Split Incentives in Commercial Electricity Contracts|This paper quantifies a tenant-side “split incentives” problem that exists when the largest commercial sector customers are on electricity-included property lease contracts causing them to face a marginal electricity price of zero. We use exogenous variation in weather shocks to show that the largest firms on tenant-paid contracts use up to 14 percent less electricity in response to summer temperature fluctuations. The result is retrieved under weaker identifying assumptions than previous split incentives papers, and is robust when exposed to several opportunities to fail. The electricity reduction in response to temperature increases is likely to be a lower bound when generalized nationwide and suggests that policymakers should consider a sub-metering policy to expose the largest commercial tenants to the prevailing retail electricity price.
Q51|Power Markets in Transition: Decarbonization,Energy Efficiency, and Short-Term Demand Response|Energy efficiency and short-term demand response are key issues in the decarbonization of power markets. However, their interaction and combined impact on market prices as well as on the supply side, is yet to be understood. We develop a framework to implement investments in energy efficiency and short-term demand response in detailed partial equilibrium power market models. We quantify our results using the EU-REGEN model for the European power market and find that energy efficiency contributes, under a 80% emission reduction target, only 11% of carbon emission reductions. Intermittent renewable energies such as wind and solar power account for the major share of 53%. However, both energy efficiency and short-term demand response have their merits in reducing marginal abatement costs and additionally exhibit an subadditive effect, at least under a 80% climate policy.
Q51|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
Q51|Do Energy Efficiency Networks Save Energy? Evidence from German Plant-Level Data|In energy efficiency networks, groups of firms exchange experiences on energy conservation in regular meetings over several years. The companies implement energy efficiency measures in order to reach commonly agreed energy savings and CO2 reduction goals. Energy efficiency networks exist in several countries, such as Germany, Sweden and China. Existing evaluations of such voluntary regional networks in Germany claim that participants improved energy efficiency at twice the speed of the industry average. Based on comprehensive data from the German manufacturing census, this paper examines whether participation in energy efficiency networks has a causal impact on energy conservation and CO2 emissions. I employ both a difference-in-differences estimator, using companies that joined energy efficiency networks at a later point in time as a control group, as well as a semiparametric matching estimator. I demonstrate that for the average participant there is no evidence of a statistically significant effect on energy productivity or CO2 emissions due to the network activities. However, there is some indication that exporters may have benefitted from the networks by reducing their CO2 emissions.
Q51|Birds of a Feather: Estimating the Value of Statistical Life from Dual-Earner Families|Economists have long employed hedonic wage analysis to estimate income-fatality risk trade-offs, but some scholars have raised concerns about systematic measurement error and omitted variable bias in the empirical applications of this model. Recent studies have employed panel methods to remove time-invariant individual-specific characteristics that could induce bias in estimation. In an analogous manner, this paper proposes to exploit assortative matching on risk attitudes within married couples to control for worker characteristics that are unobserved to the econometrician. I develop and implement a modified hedonic wage estimator based on a within-coupled differenced wage equation for full-time working married couples with the Current Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Group over 1996-2002. The key assumption builds on the findings in the assortative matching literature that individuals often marry those who have common traits across many dimensions, including those that may influence worker wages and are correlated with observed occupational fatality risks. This estimator identifies the compensating differential for occupation fatality risk by using within-couple differencing to remove unobserved determinants of risk attitudes and risk-mitigation ability, on which couples match, from the error term. I find that the value of statistical life (VSL) varies from $9 to $13 million (2016$). The within-couple differenced VSL estimates are stable and more robust to variation in specification of the hedonic wage model than conventional, cross-sectional hedonic wage models. I also find that the value of statistical life takes an inverted-U shape with respect to age.
Q51|Long-Term Macroeconomic Effects of Climate Change: A Cross-Country Analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables-defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we fi?nd that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04° per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01° per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary signifi?cantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
Q51|The endowment effect, discounting and the environment|There is a considerable body of evidence showing that our preferences exhibit both reference dependence and loss aversion, a.k.a. the endowment effect. In this paper, we consider the implications of the endowment effect for discounting, with a special focus on discounting future improvements in the environment. We show that the endowment effect modifies the discount rate via (i) an instantaneous endowment effect and (ii) a reference-updating effect. Moreover we show that these two effects often combine to dampen the preference to smooth consumption over time. What this implies for discounting future environmental benefits may then depend critically on whether environmental quality is merely a factor of production of material consumption, or whether it is an amenity. On an increasing path of material consumption, dampened consumption smoothing implies a lower discount rate. But on a declining path of environmental quality and where we derive utility directly from environmental quality, it implies a higher discount rate. On non-monotonic paths, loss aversion specifically can give rise to substantial discontinuities in the discount rate.
Q51|Pricing climate change risks: CAPM with rare disasters and stochastic probabilities|There are concerns that climate-related physical and political risks are not yet properly reflected in asset prices. To address these concerns, we develop a dynamic asset pricing framework with rare disasters related to climate change. The novelty of this paper lies in linking carbon emissions and portfolio composition with the stochastically-varying probability of these events. Using theory and simulations we study the implications of the imminent threat of climate change on different market measures and on the participation of carbon-intensive assets in the aggregate portfolio, as well as the conditions that lead to these assets becoming stranded. Our result suggest that climate change implies a positive and increasing risk premium, with the overall equity premium depending on the volatility of the stochastic process that governs climate change risk. Transition risks lower substantially the participation of carbon intensive assets in the market portfolio, which should be fully de-carbonized by the end of the century for the worst IPCC emissions scenario.
Q51|Valuing meteorological services in resource-constrained settings: Application to smallholder farmers in the Peruvian Altiplano|Changing climate and weather patterns have resulted in reduced agricultural productivity in some parts of the world and put pressure on global food security. Availability and improved quality of meteorological information is seen as a potentially propitious means of adaptation to changing climate conditions. Forecasts of extreme weather events are especially valuable in resource-poor settings where climate-related vulnerability is high, such as for smallholder farmers in the developing world. In this paper we provide estimates of frost warnings valuation in the context of small-scale quinoa production in the Peruvian Altiplano. We first present a detailed contextual assessment of quinoa production in the study region based on agrometeorological and socio-economic data that was obtained through a representative farm household survey conducted in December 2016. Building on this assessment, we propose a stochastic life-cycle model, replicating the lifetime cycle of a quinoa-producing household, in order to derive a theoretical valuation of frost warnings. Calibrating the model to our data we provide estimates of potential frost-warning valuation which are in the range of $30-50 per household and year, depending on the forecast accuracy and agents' risk aversion. In a last step, using the observational data from the farm household survey, we show that access to existing meteorological services is empirically associated with avoided losses in agricultural production that amount to $18 per average household and per year. Our findings point to high climate vulnerabilities of smallholders in the Peruvian Altiplano and potentially large welfare gains from incorporating improved meteorological services into their decision-making process.
Q51|The economic value of NBS restoration measures and their benefits in a river basin context: A meta-analysis regression|The study collects original monetary estimates for Nature Based Solutions (NBS) and benefits, with restoration approach in a basin context. A database of 187 monetary estimates is constructed to perform the first meta-analysis, which will assess how individuals value the NBS restoration measures and their benefits. We find that individuals value, in particular, global climate regulation, local environmental regulation, recreational activities, and habitat and biodiversity benefits. We find also that NBS measures aimed at floodplains and river streams are more highly valued. The results of this study suggest that the Willingness-to-pay (WTP) is weakly influenced by the methodological variables. While the contingent valuation method affects the WTP compared to studies using choice experiments, the payment and econometric method means have only a marginal effect. Survey modes are never significant. Finally, studies on the US and Europe country contexts show higher WTP than those conducted in Asia.
Q51|The economic value of NBS restoration measures and their benefits in a river basin context: A meta-analysis regression|The study collects original monetary estimates for Nature Based Solutions (NBS) and benefits, with restoration approach in a basin context. A database of 187 monetary estimates is constructed to perform the first meta-analysis, which will assess how individuals value the NBS restoration measures and their benefits. We find that individuals value, in particular, global climate regulation, local environmental regulation, recreational activities, and habitat and biodiversity benefits. We find also that NBS measures aimed at floodplains and river streams are more highly valued. The results of this study suggest that the Willingness-to-pay (WTP) is weakly influenced by the methodological variables. While the contingent valuation method affects the WTP compared to studies using choice experiments, the payment and econometric method means have only a marginal effect. Survey modes are never significant. Finally, studies on the US and Europe country contexts show higher WTP than those conducted in Asia.
Q51|Superfund Cleanups and Children's Lead Exposure|This study evaluates the effect of EPA’s Superfund cleanup program on children’s lead exposure. We linked two decades of blood lead level (BLL) measurements from children in six states with data on Superfund sites and other lead risk factors. We used quasi-experimental methods to identify the causal effect of proximity to Superfund cleanups on rates of elevated BLL. We estimated a difference-in-difference model comparing the change in elevated BLL of children closer to versus farther from lead-contaminated sites before, during, and after cleanup. We also estimated a triple difference model including children near hazardous sites with minimal to no lead contamination as a comparison group. We used spatial fixed effects and matching to minimize potential bias from unobserved differences between the treatment and comparison groups. Results indicate that Superfund cleanups lowered the risk of elevated BLL for children living within 2 kilometers of lead-contaminated sites 8 to 18 percent.
Q51|Property values and water quality: A nationwide meta-analysis and the implications for benefit transfer|We conduct a meta-analysis using a comprehensive review of studies that examine the effects of water quality improvements on waterfront and non-waterfront housing values. Rather than conducting the meta-analysis using dollar values, this study estimates mean elasticity responses. We identify 36 studies that result in 656 unique observations. Mean property price elasticities with respect to numerous water quality measures are calculated (e.g., chlorophyll-a, fecal coliform, nitrogen, and phosphorous) for purposes of value transfer. In the context of water clarity, function transfers can be performed. We estimate numerous meta-regressions, and compare transfer performance across models using an out-of-sample transfer error exercise. The results suggest value transfers often perform just as well as more complicated function transfers. In our context, however, a simple function transfer that accounts for baseline water clarity performs best. We discuss the implications of these results for benefit transfer, and outline key limitations in the literature.
Q51|Flexibility mechanisms in environmental regulations: Their use and impacts|Based on an in-depth literature review and responses to a survey among OECD member countries, this paper discusses the use of flexibility mechanisms in environmental regulations. Such mechanisms can provide flexibility as to how a given environmental improvement is achieved, regarding where environmental improvements take place, when they take place, as regards who is to achieve the improvements, and for which pollutants the emission reductions are to be achieved.The literature on these issues is limited, but it is clear that some such mechanisms can have important environmental and economic impacts. In certain cases, flexibility mechanisms which have provided important benefits in terms of cost reductions have proven to also shift pollution to areas where the negative health impacts are larger. Hence, it will be useful to carefully assess the related social costs and benefits of both existing and new flexibility mechanisms.
Q51|The Impact of Carbon Tax on GDP and Environment|This study aims to examine the impact of imposing carbon taxes as an effort to reduce the effects of greenhouse gases. By using GTAP-E, this study found that the imposition of a vehicle carbon tax of 5 percent resulted in a reduction in the GDP rate of 0.01 percent and effectively reduced the level of carbon dioxide emissions by 0.06 percent.
Q51|Agricultural Growth and Environmental Quality in Cameroon: Evidence from ARDL Bound Testing Approach|The purpose of this study is to examine the two-way relationship between agricultural growth and the quality of the environment. Agriculture is considered a key sector and of great importance in the Cameroonian economy. But its sensitivity to climate fluctuations has created a great deal of concern about its ability to meet the food needs of the entire population as a result of climate change. Moreover, its contribution to the deterioration of the quality of the environment is far from being marginal. Thus, the analysis of the links between agricultural income and the quality of the environment was made in the framework of this study using the environmental curve of Kuznets and the Ricardian model. The results of the study show that there is a U-shaped relationship between agricultural growth and environmental quality (CO2). This shows that it is difficult to make agricultural production believe without having a negative effect on the quality of the environment. We finally show that rising temperatures have a U-shaped impact on farm income.
Q51|Heterogeneous Consumer Preference for Seafood Sustainability in Japan|This study estimates Japanese consumers’ willingness to pay (WTP) for several components of seafood sustainability. A choice experiment via a web survey is conducted among Japanese seafood consumers. In order to estimate WTP, a latent class model is employed to treat heterogeneity of consumer preference in addition to a basic conditional logit model. The latent class model resulted in separating consumers into two characteristic groups: nature-oriented and human-oriented groups. Neither group was found to be willing to pay for seafood sustainability even though they are somewhat concerned about seafood sustainability. Specifically, the nature-oriented group, which comprised 51% of our consumer sample, negatively evaluated fisheries management and preservation of tradition and culture but highly evaluated the environment and ecosystems. Meanwhile, the human-oriented group, which comprised 49% of our consumer sample, positively evaluated fisheries management and regionality, but negatively evaluated the environment and ecosystems. The differences between the groups are unrelated to education or income, but are related to seafood expense, age, family structure, and knowledge of sustainability.
Q51|The benefit of management policy of Seoul on airborne particulate matter: An application of contingent valuation|There is an increasing concern on particulate matter (PM) management in Seoul. The annual mean PM concentration of Seoul is far higher than the World Health Organization guideline and its decreasing rate has been slowed since 2012. Seoul Metropolitan Government has made various efforts to solve the problem. In particular, after an open forum held in June 2017, the Ten Measures for Fine Particles were established. Since the management of fine particles would enforce a huge budget (annual mean of 146 million US dollar) it requires a legitimate validation by the benefit analysis. This paper aims to estimate the benefit of the management policy of Seoul on airborne particulate matter. The benefit is estimated by the contingent valuation method. The estimation by the Spike model shows that the annual willingness to pay (WTP) per household for the management of airborne particulate matter is 126 US dollar (or 138,107 Korean won) (95% confidence interval of 114 to 137 US dollar). The applications of the other statistical models are also analyzed. Considering the total number of households, annual benefit of the management policy of Seoul on airborne particulate matter is 492 million US dollar annually (95% confidence interval of 446 to 537 million US dollar). A simple comparison shows that the benefit of the management of airborne particulate matter in Seoul is 3~4 times higher than the incurred expense.
Q51|Economics Importance of Wetlands, their Benefits and Values Case of Pakistan|Wetlands are recognized for their multi-services and functions they provide of the ecosystem. A better valuation can prevent these wetlands from degradation and away towards wise use. This study which was conducted for the main wetland complexes namely CIWC, MCWC explore the valuation of Pakistan’s wetlands. As study stated many functions namely regulation, carrier, information and production functions according to their characters are valued in US dollar per hectare per year from the secondary sources through value transfer method from international standard of economic benefits and values of wetlands. The aim of the study was to evaluate the monetarized value of Pakistani wetlands for the stopping of degradation and to quantify the direct and indirect economic functions and services for the local as well as non-local people to conclude how Pakistani wetlands like other countries have their monetarized benefits to extract their importance and the wise utilization of these natural assets. The study also recommends the need for many artificial or manmade wetlands.
Q51|A Semiparametric Smooth Coefficient Estimator for Recreation Demand|We introduce a semiparametric smooth coefficient estimator for recreation demand data that allows more flexible modeling of preference heterogeneity. We show that our sample of visitors each has an individual statistically significant price coefficient estimate leading to clearly nonparametric consumer surplus and willingness to pay (WTP) distributions. We also show mean WTP estimates that are different in economically meaningful ways for every demographic variable we have for our sample of beach visitors. This flexibility is valuable for future researchers who can include any variables of interest beyond the standard demographic variables we have included here. And the richer results, price elasticities, consumer surplus and WTP estimates, are valuable to planners and policymakers who can easily see how all these estimates vary with characteristics of the population of interest.
Q51|An experimental test of the solemn oath in eliciting sincere preferences|Hypothetical bias is the gap between the hypothetical willingness to pay and the real economic payment. Subjects may overstate or understate their willingness to pay due to strategic behaviour. This bias is common in contingent valuation studies. In this study, we attempt to use a commitment device to correct the bias, in order to elicit sincere preferences. We use a solemn oath in second-price auctions, using both induced valuations and homegrown valuations. Using a random effect panel data model, we draw three conclusions: (1) there is a gap between subjects' bids and their true willingness to pay due to the violation of both the budget constraint and the participation constraint; (2) oaths in the induced value experiment can increase subjects' bids towards the induced value only given real monetary incentives; (3) oaths can modestly correct the hypothetical bias in the homegrown valuation experiment.
Q51|On Factors of Consumer Heterogeneity in (Mis)Valuation of Future Energy Costs: Evidence for the German Automobile Market|In this paper, we first recover the individual valuation of expected future fuel costs at the time of a car purchase and then explore how various factors relate to the recovered consumer undervaluation of fuel savings (on average, consumers\' willingness-to-pay for a €1 reduction in fuel costs is below €0.20).
Q51|The Moderating Effect of Fuel Prices On the Market Value of Fuel Efficiency, Driving Intensity, and Co2 Emissions|In the current paper, we quantify the effect that fuel prices have on vehicle prices\' responsiveness to fuel economy. We apply a hedonic price model to the German automobile market by using data on detailed technical specifications of high-sales vehicles of three sequential model years. In the contribution to previous research, our specification enables us to distinguish between consumers\' valuation of fuel economy versus their reaction to changes in fuel prices. Two sources of changes in consumers\' willingness-to-pay for better fuel economy are discussed - changes in the budget for driving a car and changes in capital investments in better car quality. We also discuss the subsequent changes in the optimal driving intensity and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions. Differences in the effects are studied for various car makes of both diesel and gasoline engines.
Q51|Equilibria Under Knightian Price Uncertainty|We study economies with Knightian uncertainty about state prices. We introduce an equilibrium concept with sublinear prices and prove that equilibria exist under weak conditions. In general, such equilibria lead to inefficient allocations; they coincide with Arrow–Debreu equilibria if and only if the values of net trades are ambiguity‐free in mean. In economies without aggregate uncertainty, inefficiencies are generic. Equilibrium allocations under price uncertainty are efficient in a constrained sense that we call uncertainty–neutral efficient. Arrow–Debreu equilibria turn out to be non‐robust with respect to the introduction of Knightian uncertainty.
Q51|Metric and Scale Effects in Consumer Preferences for Environmental Benefits|No abstract is available for this item.
Q51|Potential Use of the Life Satisfaction Approach to Value Nonmarket Goods and Services|Economic analysis often faces challenges in the valuation of nonmarket goods and services. The traditional set of nonmarket valuation tools for measuring Marshallian economic surplus has limitations related to potential bias in stated preferences and endogeneity of nonmarket amenity placement in revealed preference studies. The life satisfaction approach offers a Hicksian compensating variationbased alternative, which uses self-reported subjective well-being to calculate the marginal rate of substitution of income for nonmarket amenities or services. The conceptual basis for the approach is explained and illustrated with an example from Iloilo, Philippines. Recommendations are offered for future application of the technique in the economic analysis of investment projects.
Q51|Cost-Benefit Analysis Of Green Roofs In Densely Built-Up Areas|This paper presents a cost-benefit analysis of vegetated roofs in urban areas based on an extensive literature review in multiply fields. Green roofs have been used as an environmentally friendly roofing structure for many centuries and considered as a sustainable product. Research shows that private benefits are usually high enough to justify the additional investment for a private decision maker. Although, when the public benefits are added to the private benefits, than in the most cases benefits outweigh additional costs of green roofs. The analysis is conducted to demonstrate the private and public costs and benefits of integrated vegetation into building envelopes. Most of the benefits are not directly measurable in economic term, thus their monetary value is estimated due to other studies.
Q51|The Impact of Climate Change on Internal Migration in Brazil|Business-as-usual climate-change forecasts point to sharp temperature rises and agriculture yield losses in Brazil. We study the impact of these changes on internal migration and population distribution. We employ a spatial equilibrium model in which the climate shapes workers' locational choices through the usual amenity-value channel and the novel indirect channel via agriculture wages. Our simulations reveal that migration rates are 5.9% higher, and that half million more people migrate inter regionally under future climate conditions. Furthermore, climate change will likely exacerbate the country's regional inequalities, as the most developed regions gain population and welfare while the least developed regions lose.
Q51|Public acceptance and willingness to pay cost-effective taxes on red meat and road traffic in Norway|The Norwegian high-level Green Tax Commission proposes inter alia cost-effective taxes on red meat and increased toll charges on road traffic to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and local air pollution, respectively. Implementation requires support by the public, but the acceptance of such taxes is not known. We have conducted a national survey of the public's acceptance of the two taxes. The survey instrument showed dynamically the reduction in emissions/pollution for each tax level. Despite survey information about the purpose of the taxes, only 25 percent, on average, were in favour of their introduction, the rest did not know, had zero willingness to pay, or opposed the tax. In this respect, preferences for the two taxes are similar. However, on average people are willing to pay approximately 90 percent of the optimal tax for red meat, but only about 25-35 percent of toll charges on road traffic depending on fuel type. Earmarking the tax revenue for environmentally friendly technology increased acceptable tax level, but only for red meat. Earmarking tax revenues for reduced income tax did not increase the acceptable tax level.
Q51|Trade-offs between carbon sequestration, landscape aesthetics and biodiversity in a cost-benefit analysis of land use options in Norway|Norway is considering a national afforestation program for greenhouse gas (GHG) sequestration on recently abandoned semi-natural pastureland. However, the program may have negative impacts on landscape aesthetics and biodiversity. We conducted a national choice experiment survey to estimate non-market benefits of the afforestation program, compared to an alternative program of recovering pastures and the status quo of natural reforestation. Combining the preference data with secondary data on costs, we derive the social net return on land use alternatives. We find that restoring half of the abandoned pastures for grazing yields the highest net present value. Rural households closer to abandoned pastures are the largest beneficiaries of this policy due to the value they place on pastures and their disutility of natural reforestation. Their willingness to pay (WTP) for recovering pastures is more than three times that of urban households, while non-use values derived from carbon sequestration and biodiversity seem more constant across space. The net present value of all land use alternatives are still positive when limiting the aggregation of WTP to rural households, and when allowing for the presence of substantial hypothetical bias in benefit estimates and for cost increases. Results indicate that landscape and biodiversity values are substantial and should be considered when designing agricultural and climate policies.
Q51|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
Q51|Valuing mortality risk in China: Comparing stated-preference estimates from 2005 and 2016|Abstract We estimate the marginal rate of substitution of income for reduction in current annual mortality risk (the “value per statistical life” or VSL) using stated-preference surveys administered to independent samples of the general population of Chengdu, China in 2005 and 2016. We evaluate the quality of estimates by the theoretical criteria that willingness to pay (WTP) for risk reduction should be strictly positive and nearly proportional to the magnitude of the risk reduction (evaluated by comparing answers between respondents) and test the effect of excluding respondents whose answers violate these criteria. For subsamples of respondents that satisfy the criteria, point estimates of the sensitivity of WTP to risk reduction are consistent with theory and yield estimates of VSL that are two to three times larger than estimated using the full samples. Between 2005 and 2016, estimated VSL increased sharply, from about 22,000 USD in 2005 to 550,000 USD in 2016. Income also increased substantially over this period. Attributing the change in VSL solely to the change in real income implies an income elasticity of about 3.0. Our results suggest that estimates of VSL from stated-preference studies in which WTP is not close to proportionate to the stated risk reduction may be biased downward by a factor of two or more, and that VSL is likely to grow rapidly in a population with strong economic growth, which implies that environmental-health, safety, and other policies should become increasingly protective.
Q51|El futuro verde de la electricidad: los casos de Uruguay y la Unión Europea<BR>[The green future of electicity: the cases of Uruguay and the European Union]|El objetivo de este trabajo es entender los cambios de política y regulación en Uruguay y la Unión Europea que llevaron a la adopción de fuentes de energía renovable no convencionales en un corto período de tiempo. Uruguay es uno de los 3 países del mundo con más del 90% de la electricidad proveniente de fuentes renovables (98% en Uruguay) y donde las renovables no convencionales aportan una contribución significativa. Uruguay también ha lanzado recientemente la primera ruta eléctrica de América Latina, con 500 km y estaciones de carga a intervalos de 60 km. La Unión Europea es una referencia internacional en la promoción del crecimiento económico sostenible y del desarrollo sostenible. Por lo tanto, también examinaremos la experiencia de la Unión Europea en el desarrollo de una agenda verde en la que las fuentes de energía renovables son una parte fundamental.
Q51|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q51|Role of information in the valuation of unfamiliar goods – the case of genetic resources in agriculture| We analyse information effects in the valuation of agricultural genetic resources using choice experiments. We define two respondent groups based on their information use. Our findings indicate that socio-demographic and attitudinal variables affect information use. There is significant individual preference heterogeneity, but there are no significant differences in scale between the information groups after allowing the mean coefficients for the attributes differ. Those having read the additional information derive higher utility from the protection of agricultural genetic resources. Our results highlight the importance of genetic resource conservation and controlling for the effects of information use in choice experiment models for unfamiliar goods.
Q51|Depression in the House: The Effects of Household Air Pollution from Solid Fuel Use in China|While adverse health effects of ambient air pollution have been well documented, there is scarce evidence on the impact of household air pollution (HAP) on mental health. We investigated the causal link between HAP exposure from the use of solid fuel on depressive symptoms using a nationally representative dataset of middle-aged and older population in China. Employing the propensity match score method (PSM), matching and adjusting for potential confounders, we found significantly higher Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) score and risk of depressive symptoms among solid fuel users than clean fuel users. These associations were especially stronger for older females who were less educated, of lower income, of higher body mass index, or had chronic diseases.
Q51|Does a promise script work to reduce the hypothetical bias? Evidence from an induced value experiment|This paper explores whether a truth-telling promise can work to reduce the hypothetical bias in preference elicitation. Using an induced value experiment in China with a random nthprice auction, the author finds: 1) Hypothetical bias exists in a random nth-price auction with induced values and making a truth-telling promise can reduce the hypothetical bias. 2) All treatments are demand-revealing except for the hypothetical baseline.
Q51|Freeway Revolts!|Freeway revolts were widespread protests across the U.S. following early urban Interstate construction in the mid-1950s. We present theory and evidence from panel data on neighborhoods and travel behavior to show that diminished quality of life from freeway disamenities inspired the revolts, aﬀected the allocation of freeways within cities, and changed city structure. First, actual freeway construction diverged from initial plans in the wake of the growing freeway revolts and subsequent policy responses, especially in central neighborhoods. Second, freeways caused slower growth in population, income, and land values in central areas, but faster growth in outlying areas. These patterns suggest that in central areas, freeway disamenity eﬀects exceeded small access beneﬁts. Third, in a quantitative general equilibrium spatial model, the aggregate beneﬁts from burying or capping freeways are large and concentrated downtown. This result suggests that targeted mitigation policies could improve welfare and helps explain why opposition to freeways is often observed in central neighborhoods. Disamenities from freeways, versus their commuting beneﬁts, likely played a signiﬁcant role in the decentralization of U.S. cities.
Q51|Planning on a wider scale – Swedish forest owners’ preferences for landscape policy attributes|A tax-fund system has been proposed to advance Swedish forest conservation. We present a choice experiment with Swedish private forest owners on preferences for attributes of a tax-fund system. Focusing on three aspects: (i) freedom to choose set-asides, (ii) equity issues, and (iii) frequency of nature inventories, we find two groups of forest owners. The first is opposed to interventions that could curtail liberty and oppose frequent nature inventories, while a smaller group would derive positive utility from joint decision-making. A tax-fund system would need to be designed in a participatory manner to reconcile forest owners, forest industry, and conservationists.
Q51|Gone fishing: The value of recreational fishing in Sweden|Data from a unique nationwide recreational fishing survey in Sweden is used to estimate benefits of recreational fishing in Sweden, differences between regions and age groups, and how they relate to expected catch. The data targets the whole Swedish population, and as a consequence a large fraction of zero fishing days exists in the sample. To consider this, a zero-inflated Poisson model was used. Swedes fished around 16 million days in 2013, of which two-thirds was spent on inland fishing, and one third was spent on marine and costal fishing. Expected consumer surplus per fishing day vary over the season, from about SEK 23 for winter fishing, to SEK 148 for summer fishing. The highest consumer surplus values are found among the youngest and the oldest age groups that were surveyed. Expected catch is an important determinant for number of fishing days, but catch increases mainly influence summer fishing.
Q51|Using an Integrated Choice and Latent Variable Model to Understand the Impact of “Professional” Respondents in a Stated Preference Survey|"Internet panels are increasingly used for stated preference research, and members of such panels receive compensation for each completed survey. One concern is that over time this creates professional respondents who answer surveys to receive the monetary compensation. We identify professional respondents using data on panel tenure, survey response frequency, completion rates and total number of completed surveys. We find evidence of two types of professional respondents: ""hyperactives"" who answer surveys frequently and ""experienced"" who have long panel tenure and a large number of completed surveys. Using an integrated choice and latent variable model in a stated preference survey, we nd that ""hyperactive"" respondents are less likely to choose the 'status quo' and have a more stochastic choice process as seen from the econometrician's point of view, whereas ""experienced"" respondents have a relatively more deterministic choice process. Our results show that ""hyperactive"" respondents significantly impact estimated values."
Q51|Household Preferences for Load Restrictions: Is There an Effect of Pro-Environmental Framing?|In this paper we investigate if a pro-environmental framing influences households' stated willingness to accept restrictions on their electricity use. We use a split-sample choice experiment (CE) and ask respondents to choose between their current electricity contract and hypothetical contracts featuring various load controls and a monetary compensation. Our results indicate that the pro-environmental framing have little impact on the respondents' choices. We observe a significant framing effect on choices and marginal willingness-to-accept (MWTA) for only a few contract attributes. The results further suggest that there is no significant framing effect among households that engage in different pro-environmental activities.
Q51|Benefits of noise measure in train commuting suburbs: a comparison of Swedish guidelines and WHO recommendations|In this study, we compare different valuation functions for a noise abatement measure in an exploitive train commuting suburb in Sweden. The benefits are estimated with different functions focusing on Swedish guidelines and recent WHO recommendations. The results show that the willingness-to-pay-based estimates of the Swedish guidelines are much lower than the estimates based on WHO guidelines. The main reason for the higher benefit estimates with WHO recommendations is the discontinuous valuation function that leaps from 0 to about 5000 SEK at 49 dB, whereas the Swedish guidelines does not include any corresponding discontinuity in its valuation function. Furthermore, the WHO recommendations are sensitive to night exposure as the cost of sleep disturbance is dominating. These different results of the monetary benefits illustrate the importance of including only established impact functions and valuation functions, and carefully apply them when noise-abatement benefits are calculated.
Q51|The Effects of Exposure to Air Pollution on Subjective Well-being in China|This paper studies the impact of six main air pollutants on three key dimensions of subjective well-being (SWB) â€“ life satisfaction, hedonic happiness and mental health. We match a nationally representative survey in China with local air quality and rich weather conditions according to the exact date and county of each interview. By making use of variations in exposures to air pollution across similar respondents living in the same county, we find that PM2.5 reduces hedonic happiness and increases the rate of depressive symptoms, but does not affect life satisfaction. Our results show that the benefits of reducing air pollution would be higher if the hidden costs of air pollution on SWB in China are taken into account.
Q51|Temperature and Mental Health: Evidence from the Spectrum of Mental Health Outcomes|This paper characterizes the link between ambient temperatures and a broad set of mental health outcomes. We find that higher temperatures increase emergency department visits for mental illness, suicides, and self-reported days of poor mental health. Specifically, cold temperatures reduce negative mental health outcomes while hot temperatures increase them. Our estimates reveal no evidence of adaptation, instead the temperature relationship is stable across time, baseline climate, air conditioning penetration rates, accessibility of mental health services, and other factors. The character of the results suggests that temperature affects mental health very differently than physical health, and more similarly to other psychological and behavioral outcomes. We provide suggestive evidence for sleep disruption as an active mechanism behind our results and discuss the implications of our findings for the allocation of mental health services and in light of climate change.
Q51|Taxes, traffic jam and spillover in the metropolis|This paper studies local governments' public policies in a metropolitan area plagued by traffic congestion, where both residents and workers consume local public goods. We develop a new spatial sub-metropolitan tax competition model which features a central city surrounded by suburban towns linked by mobile capital and mobile residents who commute to work. We show that Pareto-efficiency is achieved if towns can retain their workers using labor subsidies. Otherwise, traffic congestion in the city is inefficiently high and local governments respond by setting inefficient public policies: (1) the city over-taxes capital and under-taxes residents, which leads to too little capital and too many residents in the city; (2) local public goods are under-provided in the city and over-provided in the towns.
Q51|Public attention to environmental issues and stock market returns|This paper empirically examines the effect of public attention to climate change and pollution on the weekly returns on US sustainability stock indices (i.e. the DJSI US and the FTSE4Good USA Index) in comparison to their conventional counterparts (i.e. the S&P 500 Index and the FTSE USA). In addition to unexpected global climate-related natural weather disasters, we consider two complementary measures of public attention to these environmental issues: (i) US media attention to climate change and pollution and (ii) the US Google Search Volume Index for these two keywords. Robust to several sensitivity analyses, our econometric analysis for the period from 2004 to 2018 reveals that public attention to environmental issues has a significantly positive (negative) effect on the returns on US sustainability (conventional) stock indices. A possible explanation of this result is that high public attention to environmental issues may drive traditionally sustainable investors, neo-sustainable, and opportunistic self-interested investors to favor stocks of sustainable firms. The insights from our empirical study are important for private and institutional investors, managers of firms, and public policy.
Q51|Estimating the Economic Impacts of Climate Change Using Weather Observations|This paper reviews methods that have been used to statistically measure the effect of climate on economic value, using historic data on weather, climate, economic activity and other variables. This has been an active area of research for several decades, with many recent developments and discussion of the best way of measuring climate damages. The paper begins with a conceptual framework covering issues relevant to estimating the costs of climate change impacts. It then considers several approaches to econometrically estimate impacts that have been proposed in the literature: cross-sections, linear and non-linear panel methods, long-differences, and partitioning variation. For each method we describe the kind of impacts (short-run vs long-run) estimated, the type of weather or climate variation used, and the pros and cons of the approach.
Q51|Amenities, Risk, and Flood Insurance Reform|This paper provides the first, comprehensive evidence on the question of whether the subsidized flood insurance rates are needed to meet the affordability goal of the National Flood Insurance Program. We use IRS records at the zip code level from 2009 to 2016 to compare the real median incomes of homeowners in areas subject to flooding risks to those homeowners in neighboring zip codes. Our analysis includes all of the Gulf Coast states and over 1000 other communities around the United States containing FEMA designated Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA). There are clear patterns of positive income stratification for coastal locations in Florida, New Jersey, and New York. We also find lower income for coastal locations in California, North Carolina, as well as the shoreline along rivers identified as in SFHA in Delaware, and Virginia fit this pattern.
Q51|Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning|"This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a \ticket"" price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a \slope"" price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighbor- hood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non-marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only."
Q51|Birds of a Feather: Estimating the Value of Statistical Life from Dual-Earner Families|Economists have long employed hedonic wage analysis to estimate income-fatality risk trade-offs, but some scholars have raised concerns about systematic measurement error and omitted variable bias in the empirical applications of this model. Recent studies have employed panel methods to remove time-invariant individual-specific characteristics that could induce bias in estimation. In an analogous manner, this paper proposes to exploit assortative matching on risk attitudes within married couples to control for worker characteristics that are unobserved to the econometrician. I develop and implement a modified hedonic wage estimator based on a within-coupled differenced wage equation for full-time working married couples with the Current Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Group over 1996-2002. The key assumption builds on the findings in the assortative matching literature that individuals often marry those who have common traits across many dimensions, including those that may influence worker wages and are correlated with observed occupational fatality risks. This estimator identifies the compensating differential for occupation fatality risk by using within-couple differencing to remove unobserved determinants of risk attitudes and risk-mitigation ability, on which couples match, from the error term. I find that the value of statistical life (VSL) varies from $9 to $13 million (2016$). The within-couple differenced VSL estimates are stable and more robust to variation in specification of the hedonic wage model than conventional, cross-sectional hedonic wage models. I also find that the value of statistical life takes an inverted-U shape with respect to age.
Q51|Long-Run Environmental Accounting in the U.S. Economy|This paper estimates an augmented measure of national output inclusive of environmental pollution damage in the United States economy over a 60-year period. The paper reports two primary findings. First, air pollution intensity declined precipitously from the 1950s to the modern era. Air pollution damage comprised roughly 30 percent of output in the post WWII economy, declining to under 10 percent in 2016. Second, accounting for pollution damage significantly affects growth rates. Prior to the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970, GDP outpaced Environmentally-Adjusted Value Added (EVA), defined as GDP less air pollution damage. Following passage of the Act, EVA grew more rapidly than GDP. Macroeconomic and environmental policies, as well as the business cycle, appreciably affect damages and EVA growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q51|Hurricane Katrina Floods New Jersey: The Role of Information in the Market Response to Flood Risk|This study uses hedonic property models to explore how coastal real estate markets subject to heterogeneous information treatments respond to flood risk. We identify reactions to flood risk, distinctly from price effects due to flood damage, by examining non-local flooding events. Utilizing a difference-in-difference methodology, we test whether the coastal real estate market in New Jersey responds to several well-publicized hurricanes and tropical storms that did not strike the Atlantic seaboard. We find that homes in high flood risk zones situated in towns that participate in public flood awareness activities incur a 7 to 16 percent decrease in price after the non-local shock.
Q51|Temperature and Growth: A Panel Analysis of the United States|We document that seasonal temperatures have significant and systematic effects on the U.S. economy, both at the aggregate level and across a wide cross section of economic sectors. This effect is particularly strong for the summer: a 1oF increase in the average summer temperature is associated with a reduction in the annual growth rate of state‐level output of 0.15 to 0.25 percentage points. We combine our estimates with projected increases in seasonal temperatures and find that rising temperatures could reduce U.S. economic growth by up to one‐third over the next century.
Q51|The Value of a Statistical Life Under Changes in Ambiguity|The value of a statistical life (VSL) is a key parameter in the analysis of government policy. Most policy decisions are made under ambiguity. This paper studies the effect of changes in ambiguity perception on the value of a statistical life (VSL). We propose a definition of increases in ambiguity perception based on Ekern’s (1980) definition of increases in risk. Ambiguity aversion alone is not sufficient to lead to an increase in the VSL when the decision maker perceives more ambiguity. Our results highlight the importance of higher order ambiguity attitudes, particularly ambiguity prudence.
Q51|Happiness, Behavioral Economics, and Public Policy|"The economics of ""happiness"" shares a feature with behavioral economics that raises questions about its usefulness in public policy analysis. What happiness economists call ""habituation"" refers to the fact that people's reported well-being reverts to a base level, even after major life events such as a disabling injury or winning the lottery. What behavioral economists call ""projection bias"" refers to the fact that people systematically mistake current circumstances for permanence, buying too much food if shopping while hungry for example. Habituation means happiness does not react to long-term changes, and projection bias means happiness over-reacts to temporary changes. I demonstrate this outcome by combining responses to happiness questions with information about air quality and weather on the day and in the place where those questions were asked. The current day's air quality affects happiness while the local annual average does not. Interpreted literally, either the value of air quality is not measurable using the happiness approach or air quality has no value. Interpreted more generously, projection bias saves happiness economics from habituation, enabling its use in public policy."
Q51|Is there a demand for flood insurance in Vietnam? Results from a choice experiment|Abstract Vietnam is one of the countries most affected by floods. Despite high exposure to this risk and repeated calls from international organizations, the penetration rate of flood insurance remains surprisingly low in Vietnam. We investigate if there is a demand for flood insurance by Vietnamese households using a choice experiment. We compute households’ willingness to pay (WTP) for various flood insurance programs and we identify the relationships between WTP and the different attributes of insurance schemes (type of risk covered, level of coverage, insurance provider, billing frequency, insurance premium). We first show that Vietnamese households exhibit a strong preference for the status quo option (no insurance). We do, however, document significant and positive WTP for some flood insurance policies, especially those covering health expenses. We show that household trust in institutions providing flood insurance policies may help understand the currently low adoption rate. Finally, we stress the high degree of heterogeneity in household preferences for flood insurance policies: past experience with flooding, individual risk preferences and subjective flood risk perception matter to understand WTP for flood insurance. These results call for a very careful design of flood insurance mechanisms in Vietnam, and more generally in developing countries subject to high risks of natural disasters.
Q51|Peeling back the onion: Using latent class analysis to uncover heterogeneous responses to stated preference surveys|We develop validity tests for application to stated-preference estimates of WTP to reduce mortality risk, i.e., value per statistical life (VSL), and apply these to data obtained by surveying a representative sample of French adults over the internet. These tests (WTP nearly proportional to risk reduction, insensitive to small differences in baseline risk, increasing in income, and consistent with budget constraints) are satisfied by a conventional single-regression analysis of our data. Using latent class analysis (LCA), we identify important differences between respondents in their consistency with the validity tests and control for much of this heterogeneity. Estimates of VSL from the latent class that is consistent with the validity tests are smaller than estimates from the standard analysis. We estimate mean VSL for adults of about 2 million € and for children (based on parents' WTP) of about 6 million €.
Q51|Accessibility, local pollution and housing prices. Evidence from Nantes Métropole, France|[eng] In this empirical article, we analyze the extent to which accessibility and environmental variables are capitalized in apartment prices in Nantes Métropole, France. Using a sample of 5,590 transactions in 2002, 2006, 2008 from the Perval database, we estimate a spatial hedonic price model that takes into account spatial autocorrelation and spatial heterogeneity. Special attention is also paid to the construction of environmental quality variables (noise exposure, air pollution). We find that apartment prices depend positively on proximity to Nantes city centre but that the public transport network (urban or non-urban) has no significant influence. Noise reduction is valued, but only at low or marginal levels of significance. Last, air quality does not significantly influence apartment prices. These results can be related to good accessibility and environmental quality in Nantes Métropole which probably makes households less sensitive to these issues than in other geographical contexts. This seems to provide little support for sustainable urban mobility plans favoring better accessibility, unless public authorities also target the greater awareness of the use of virtuous modes of transport.
Q51|The impact of local shocks on well-being: Only a matter of perception?|This paper investigates how witnessing adverse events affects individuals' perceptions and consequently their personal subjective well-being. In order to do so, we compare material well-being dynamics with changes in subjective well-being. We link GIS data on local flood shocks to an extensive household sample from rural Southeast Asia. This allows us to contrast individuals who actually experienced a shock with those who did not. We find that the mere proximity to a potentially adverse flood shock, without any direct impact on a household's material well-being, can be sufficient to affect subjective well-being.
Q51|Toxic Effects of Lead Disposal in Water: An Analysis of TRI Facility Releases|Using county-level TRI data from 2003 to 2016, I find evidence that lead emissions in water adversely affect birth weights within the emitting county, especially with respect to the percentage of births considered low birth weight within that county (less than 2,500 grams). I find that a one percent increase in lead emissions per square mile increases the proportion of low birth weights by 0.27 percentage points. For a county with an average number of births in a particular year, this one percent increase in lead per square mile translates to an additional $475,000 in hospitalization costs from complications with delivery and perinatal care alone. My results show that lead emissions create a substantial negative externality even at relatively small quantities and may have more significant effects for those living in poverty.
Q51|Traffic Noise and Housing Values: Evidence from an Airport Concession Renewal|Credible estimates of the cost of traffic noise are crucial to the assessment of the merits of noise control policies. This study estimates the cost of aircraft noise by measuring its capitalization into housing prices following an unexpected renewal of the operating contract for a local airport. The results show that a one decibel increase in aircraft noise leads to a reduction in housing values of 0.3 percent, or $1,200, on average. The capitalization rate is larger the higher is the property’s value, size and standard which suggest that owners of these houses benefit relatively more from noise abatement measures.
Q51|Externa kostnader för luftföroreningar från transporter i olika delar av Sverige Sammanfattning och slutsatser från arbetet med luftkvalitet i SAMKOST|Syftet med denna studie har varit att genom några beräkningsexempel klargöra hur de externa kostnaderna för luftföroreningar varierar mellan transportslag och geografi i Sverige, samt att tydliggöra vilka faktorer som ligger bakom dessa skillnader. Syftet är också att sätta in dessa resultat i en internationell kontext för att beskriva hur den svenska situationen förhåller sig till den som råder i andra länder både när det gäller miljöproblemen som orsakas av utsläpp till luft men också arbetet med att utforma miljöarbetet baserat på denna kunskap. Det senare är viktigt för att kunna föra en diskussion om hur Sverige påverkas av och kan bidra till internationellt luftvårdsarbete, framförallt inom EU eftersom den största påverkan av utsläpp från transportsektorn i Sverige sker inom Europa. Vi har i arbetet med SAMKOST studerat effekter på såväl lokal som regional nivå utifrån den metodik som tillämpas inom EU där hälsoeffekter utvärderas baserat på marginella haltförändringar i det som kallas urban eller regional bakgrund. De underlag som tagits fram i SAMKOST-projekten skiljer sig därför från flertalet svenska studier som oftast bedömer effekterna av den totala halten utan hänsyn till källa eller åtgärd. De modelleringar som är grunden för beräkningarna har genomförts av SMHI vilket säkerställer att resultaten är jämförbara mellan de olika transportslagen.
Q51|Economics and Social Costs of Hydroelectric Power|This paper offers a non-technical overview of the issues involved when applying cost-benefit analysis (CBA) to hydropower, both in terms of new installations and changing existing regulatory structures. Our focus is on the conceptual and empirical problems of applying CBA to provide decision support in such cases. A large body of literature now exists on the social net values of generating electricity from moving water. The studies focusing values related to the ecological system include, but are not limited to, effects on climate, aesthetics, landscape, recreation and wildlife. Taken together, they confirm the view that the public invariably seems to place significant values on the integrity of the ecological system. It does, however, not seem possible to draw general conclusions from the literature on whether or not a given (dis)investment will pass a cost-benefit test; the end-result depends entirely on the specifics.
Q51|Do U.S. Anglers Care about Harmful Algal Blooms? A Discrete Choice Experiment of Lake Erie Recreational Anglers|Despite the growing awareness of harmful algal blooms (HABs) in the United States and abroad, estimates of welfare losses due to their presence are missing from the literature. Using a mail survey of 767 Ohio Lake Erie recreational angler respondents and a choice experiment, this study provides the first empirical quantification of the economic impacts of HABs on U.S. recreational anglers. Our results demonstrate a significant and substantial willingness to pay by anglers for reduction in HABs, beyond the benefits associated with conventional water quality measures such as catch rates and water clarity. For instance, we find that anglers are willing to pay $8 to $10 more per trip for one less mile of boating through HABs en route to a fishing site. This finding suggests that explicit measures of HABs need to be collected and considered when valuing water quality in nutrient-rich bodies of water. We evaluate the welfare improvements resulting from several nutrient reduction policies, and find that anglers are willing to pay on average $40 to $60 per trip for a policy that cuts upstream phosphorus loadings by 40%. The majority of welfare gains for anglers result from improving the non-catchable component of the fishing experience, notably water clarity and HAB reduction, as opposed to better chances of angler success.
Q51|Climate change and agriculture: farmer adaptation to extreme heat| This paper examines how farmers adapt, in the short-run, to extreme heat. Using a production function approach and micro-data from Peruvian households, we find that high temperatures induce farmers to increase the use of inputs, such as land and domestic labor. This reaction partially attenuates the negative effects of high temperatures on output. We interpret this change in inputs as an adaptive response in a context of subsistence farming, incomplete markets, and lack of other coping mechanisms. We use our estimates to simulate alternative climate change scenarios and show that accounting for adaptive responses is quantitatively important.
Q51|Social risks of forest fires: a methodological proposal for their monetary evaluation|The risk of forest fire in Portugal ranks among the highest in Europe. In recent times, fears have risen over the incidence of major forest fires with a scale and dimension that generate extremely high economic, environmental and social costs. Combatting this type of fire represents a particularly difficult and expensive objective and, in some cases, with a far from desirable level of efficiency. Particularly due to the national context characterised by severe budgetary restrictions, guaranteeing greater effectiveness and efficiency in forest fire prevention and fighting represents core objectives. One of the ways of improving the decision making process involves the monetary estimation of the total costs caused by fires and their respective risk levels, thus the cost of the risk of fire (in the sense of the economic cost calculated from the perspective of society in contrast to the concept of economic cost calculated according to the private ownership perspective) and that includes the probability of the incidence of fire and its propagation and the total cost of the damage that incorporates both the specific social costs, the economic cost and the environmental cost. This working paper holds the objective of contributing towards the conceptual and methodological discussion around this theme.
Q51|Quasi-Experimental Methods in Environmental Economics: Opportunities and Challenges|This paper examines the application of quasi-experimental methods in environmental economics. We begin with two observations: i) standard quasi-experimental methods, first applied in other microeconomic fields, typically assume unit-level treatments that do not spill over across units; (ii) because public goods, such as environmental attributes, exhibit externalities, treatment of one unit often affects other units. To explore the implications of applying standard quasi-experimental methods to public good problems, we extend the potential outcomes framework to explicitly distinguish between unit-level source and the resulting group-level exposure of a public good. This new framework serves as a foundation for reviewing and interpreting key papers from the recent empirical literature. We formally demonstrate that two common quasi-experimental estimators of the marginal social benefit of a public good can be biased due to externality spillovers, even when the source of the public good itself is quasi-randomly assigned. We propose an unbiased estimator for the valuation of local public goods and discuss how it can be implemented in future studies. Finally, we consider how to preserve the advantages of the quasi-experimental approach when valuing global public goods, such as climate change mitigation, for which no control units are available.
Q51|Smog, Cognition and Real-World Decision Making|Cognitive functioning is critical as in our daily life a host of real-world complex decisions in high-stakes markets have to be made. The decision-making process can be vulnerable to environmental stressors. Summarizing the growing economic and epidemiologic evidence linking air pollution, cognition performance and real-world decision making, we first illustrate key physiological and psychological pathways between air pollution and cognition. We then document the main patterns of air pollution affecting cognitive test performance by type of cognitive tests, gender, window of exposure, age profile, and educational attainment. We further extend to a review of real-world decision making that has been found to be affected by air pollution and the resulting cognitive impairments. Finally, rich implications on environmental health policies are drawn based on existing evaluations of social costs of air pollution.
Q51|Behavioral determinants of proclaimed support for environment protection policies|Using a representative survey of German university students, we confirm that proclaimed support for environment protection policies depends on socio-cultural factors and political ideology. Unlike most related studies for other countries, we find that the environmental policy stance of German partisans does not follow the left-right cleavage. Only about 25% of the social-democratic partisans wholeheartedly support environment protection policies, whereas 50% of the green partisans, who, in Germany, also belong to the political left, do so; and when controlling for socio-cultural influences, social-democratic partisans become undistinguishable from Christian-conservative and market-oriented partisans. Focusing on behavioral influences, we find that some of the respondents' psychological traits are not filtered through their political ideology but directly influence their proclaimed attitudes towards environment protection policies. We identify as important behavioral determinants the locus of control and psychological traits that capture the respondents' susceptibility to making use of expressive rhetoric.
Q51|The Input-Output Analysis Of Blue Industries: Comparative Study Of Estonia And Finland|The paper focuses on examining the role of blue industries in the national economies of Estonia and Finland as two neighbouring countries that have a sea border. We exploit the Input-Output (I-O) methodology to analyse inter-industry linkages relying on the OECD I-O tables. The OECD database comprises information on 34 sectors of the national economy over the period 1995–2011. The results of the analysis show that despite rather weak overall backward and forward linkages of aggregated blue industries within the national economies, they play a remarkable role in the economic activities of maritime regions, and to a large extent drive the economic success of Estonian and Finnish regional and national economies in generating new growth and employment. The weak backward and forward linkages indicate that negative dynamics within the blue economy yield rather weak negative externalities for the overall economy, and by contrast, if the national economy as a whole is suffering under a crisis, the potential impact on industries is not particularly remarkable. These findings suggest that blue industries are relatively independent within national economies having a remarkable role in socio-economic development of maritime regions, and thereby, create good preconditions for the stable development of cross-border cooperation between the maritime regions of both countries.
Q51|Public insurance and climate change (part one): Past trends in weather-related insurance in New Zealand|Climate change appears to be increasing the frequency and magnitude of extreme weather events, negatively affecting communities as well as posing long-term sustainability challenges to insurance (risk transfer) mechanisms. New Zealand’s public natural hazard insurer, the Earthquake Commission (EQC), covers homeowners for damage to land (and in some cases to dwellings and contents) caused by landslip, storm or flood. We comprehensively explore the EQC claims data to investigate these weather-related claims from 2000-2017. We find no clear upward trend yet emerging in the number of claims or their value. We find that the northern regions of both islands are the source of most claims, that only a handful of weather events caused a large proportion of EQC’s weather-related pay-outs, that the average property lodging a weather-related claim is located twice as close to the coast as the national average, and that properties with claims usually are cited on much steeper land than the typical property in New Zealand. We also explore their relation between claims and socio-economic characteristics, finding that higher income neighbourhoods appear to be those most benefiting from the EQC coverage for weather events.
Q51|International Agricultural Mitigation Research and the Impacts and Value of Two SLMACC Research Projects|Evaluating the benefits of publicly funded research is always a challenging task. This paper cannot produce air-tight quantification of the benefits of Sustainable Land Management and Climate Change (SLMACC) research. We do, however, demonstrate the key building blocks of significant impact have been obtained. First, it is clear that public funding has contributed importantly to New Zealand’s positioning itself as one of the leading global contributors to agricultural mitigation research. Second, the prominence of the research combined with the low likelihood of research occurring on this scale without public support suggests strongly that the results would not have been obtained absent public funding. Finally, though the realization of ultimate environmental and/or economic benefits will depend on the evolution of farming practices and climate change policy settings, the advances in genetic markers for low CH4 animals and identification of emission-reducing management practices have the potential for GHG emission reductions that would be significant in environmental terms, and whose value at likely carbon pricing levels would be in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Although the results discussed are conditional on several factors such as future policy implementation, adoption rates and the practical availability of mitigation options and practices for different farm landscapes; the impacts, economic and environmental values attached to mitigation research cannot be overlooked and provide important insights to the benefits that public investments can make to the development of a more sustainable agricultural system for the country.
Q51|Prices or Quantities Dominate Banking and Borrowing|The possibility of intertemporal banking and borrowing of tradeable permits is often viewed as tilting the various policy debates about optimal pollution control instruments toward favoring such time-flexible quantities. The present paper shows that this view is misleading, at least for the simplest dynamic extension of the original `prices vs. quantities' information structure. The model of this paper allows the firms to know and act upon the realization of uncertain future costs two full periods ahead of the regulators. For any given circumstance, the paper shows that either a fixed price or a fixed quantity is superior in expected welfare to time-flexible banking and borrowing. Furthermore, the standard original formula for the comparative advantage of prices over quantities contains sufficient information to completely characterize the regulatory role of intertemporal banking and borrowing. The logic and implications of these results are analyzed and discussed.
Q51|Do Discrete Choice Approaches to Valuing Urban Amenities Yield Different Results Than Hedonic Models?|Amenities that vary across cities are typically valued using either a hedonic model, in which amenities are capitalized into wages and housing prices, or a discrete model of household location choice. In this paper, we use the 2000 Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) to value climate amenities using both methods. We compare estimates of marginal willingness to pay (MWTP), first assuming homogeneous tastes for climate amenities and then allowing preferences for climate amenities to vary by location. We find that mean MWTP for warmer winters is about four times larger using the discrete choice approach than with the hedonic approach; mean MWTP for cooler summers is twice as large. The two approaches also differ in their estimates of taste sorting. The discrete choice model implies that households with the highest MWTP for warmer winters locate in cities with the mildest winters, while the hedonic model does not. Differences in estimates are due to three factors: (1) the discrete choice model incorporates the psychological costs of moving from one’s birthplace, which the hedonic models do not; (2) the discrete choice model allows for city-specific labor and housing markets, rather than assuming a national market; (3) the discrete choice model uses information on market shares (i.e., population) in estimating parameters, which the hedonic model does not.
Q51|The Critical Role Of Markets In Climate Change Adaptation|Markets, especially land markets, can facilitate climate change adaptation through price signals. A review of research reveals that urban, coastal, and agricultural land markets provide effective signals of the emerging costs of climate change. These signals encourage adjustments by both private owners and policy officials in taking preemptive action to reduce costs. In agriculture, they promote consideration of new cropping and tillage practices, seed types, timing, and location of production. They also stimulate use of new irrigation technologies. In urban areas, they motivate new housing construction, elevation, and location away from harm. They channel more efficient use of water and its application to parks and other green areas to make urban settings more desirable with higher temperatures. Related water markets play a similar role in adjusting water use and reallocation. To be effective, however, markets must reflect multiple traders and prices must be free to adjust. Where these conditions are not met, market signals will be inhibited and market-driven adaptation will be reduced. Because public policy is driven by constituent demands, it may not be a remedy. The evidence of the National Flood Insurance Program and federal wildfire response illustrates how politically difficult it may be to adjust programs to be more adaptive.
Q51|Air Pollution and Mental Health: Evidence from China|A large body of literature estimates the effect of air pollution on health. However, most of these studies have focused on physical health, while the effect on mental health is limited. Using the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS) covering 12,615 urban residents during 2014 – 2015, we find significantly positive effect of air pollution – instrumented by thermal inversions – on mental illness. Specifically, a one-standard-deviation (18.04 μg/m3) increase in average PM2.5 concentrations in the past month increases the probability of having a score that is associated with severe mental illness by 6.67 percentage points, or 0.33 standard deviations. Based on average health expenditures associated with mental illness and rates of treatment among those with symptoms, we calculate that these effects induce a total annual cost of USD 22.88 billion in health expenditures only. This cost is on a similar scale to pollution costs stemming from mortality, labor productivity, and dementia.
Q51|The Morbidity Cost of Air Pollution: Evidence from Consumer Spending in China|This paper provides knowledge the first analysis of the morbidity cost of PM2.5 for the entire population of a developing country. To address potential endogeneity in pollution exposure, it constructs an instrumental variable by modeling the spatial spillovers of PM2.5 due to long-range transport. It proposes a flexible distributed-lag model that incorporates the IV approach to capture the dynamic response to past pollution exposure. The analysis shows that PM2.5 has a significant impact on healthcare spending in both the short and medium terms that survives an array of robustness checks. The annual reduction in national healthcare spending from complying with the World Health Organizationâ€™s annual standard of 10 mg/m3 would amount to $42 billion, or nearly 7% of Chinaâ€™s total healthcare spending in 2015. In contrast to the common perception that the morbidity impact is modest relative to the mortality impact, our estimated morbidity cost of air pollution is about two-thirds of the mortality cost from the recent literature.
Q51|Sorting or Steering: Experimental Evidence on the Economic Effects of Housing Discrimination|Housing discrimination is illegal. However, paired-tester audit experiments have revealed evidence of discrimination in the interactions between potential buyers and real estate agents, raising concern about whether certain groups are systematically excluded from the beneficial effects of healthy neighborhoods. Using data from HUD's most recent Housing Discrimination Study and micro-level data on key attributes of neighborhoods in 28 US cities, we find strong evidence of discrimination in the characteristics of neighborhoods towards which individuals are steered. Conditional upon the characteristics of the house suggested by the audit tester, minorities are significantly more likely to be steered towards neighborhoods with less economic opportunity and greater exposures to crime and pollution. We find that holding location preferences or income constant, discriminatory steering alone can explain a disproportionate number of minority households found in high poverty neighborhoods in the United States and could be an important contributor to the gap in intergenerational income mobility found between black-white households. The steering effect is also large enough to fully explain the differential found in proximity to Superfund sites among African American mothers. These results have important implications for the analysis of neighborhood effects and establish discrimination as a mechanism underlying observed correlations between race and pollution in the environmental justice literature.
Q51|Economic and Non-Economic Factors in Violence: Evidence from Organized Crime, Suicides and Climate in Mexico|"Organized intergroup violence is almost universally modeled as a calculated act motivated by economic factors. In contrast, it is generally assumed that non-economic factors, such as an individual's emotional state, play a role in many types of interpersonal violence, such as ""crimes of passion."" We ask whether economic or non-economic factors better explain the well-established relationship between temperature and violence in a unique context where intergroup killings by drug-trafficking organizations (DTOs) and ""normal"" interpersonal homicides are separately documented. A constellation of evidence, including the limited influence of a cash transfer program as well as comparison with both non-violent DTO crime and suicides, indicate that economic factors only partially explain the observed relationship between temperature and violence. We argue that non-economic psychological and physiological factors that are affected by temperature, modeled here as a ""taste for violence,"" likely play an important role in causing both interpersonal and intergroup violence."
Q51|Quasi-Experimental Methods in Environmental Economics: Opportunities and Challenges|This paper examines the application of quasi-experimental methods in environmental economics. We begin with two observations: i) standard quasi-experimental methods, first applied in other microeconomic fields, typically assume unit-level treatments that do not spill over across units; (ii) because public goods, such as environmental attributes, exhibit externalities, treatment of one unit often affects other units. To explore the implications of applying standard quasi-experimental methods to public good problems, we extend the potential outcomes framework to explicitly distinguish between unit-level source and the resulting group-level exposure of a public good. This new framework serves as a foundation for reviewing and interpreting key papers from the recent empirical literature. We formally demonstrate that two common quasi-experimental estimators of the marginal social benefit of a public good can be biased due to externality spillovers, even when the source of the public good itself is quasi-randomly assigned. We propose an unbiased estimator for the valuation of local public goods and discuss how it can be implemented in future studies. Finally, we consider how to preserve the advantages of the quasi-experimental approach when valuing global public goods, such as climate change mitigation, for which no control units are available.
Q51|Evaluating the Economic Cost of Coastal Flooding|Sea-level rise and ensuing permanent coastal inundation will cause spatial shifts in population and economic activity over the next 200 years. Using a highly spatially disaggregated, dynamic model of the world economy that accounts for the dynamics of migration, trade, and innovation, this paper estimates the consequences of probabilistic projections of local sea‐level changes under different emissions scenarios. Under an intermediate greenhouse gas concentration trajectory (Representative Concentration Pathway [RCP] 4.5), permanent flooding is projected to reduce global real GDP by an average of 0.22% in present value terms, with welfare declining by as much as 0.76% as people move to places with less attractive amenities. By the year 2200 a projected 0.79% of world population will be displaced (with a 95% credible interval 0.20%‐1.51%). Losses in many coastal localities are more than an order of magnitude larger, e.g., 10% of 10 x 10 coastal cells lose more than 8% of real GDP in present discounted value terms.
Q51|Unlocking Amenities: Estimating Public-Good Complementarity|Public goods may exhibit complementarities that are essential for determining their individual value. Our results indicate that improving safety near parks can turn them from public bads to goods. Ignoring complementarities may lead to i) undervaluing the potential value of public goods; ii) overestimating heterogeneity in preferences; and iii) understating the value of public goods to minority households. Recent reductions in crime have “unlocked” $5 billion in property value in Chicago, New York and Philadelphia. Still over half of the potential value of park proximity, over $10 billion, remains locked in.
Q51|Accounting for Unobservable Heterogeneity in Cross Section Using Spatial First Differences|We develop a simple cross-sectional research design to identify causal effects that is robust to unobservable heterogeneity. When many observational units are dense in physical space, it may be sufficient to regress the “spatial first differences” (SFD) of the outcome on the treatment and omit all covariates. This approach is conceptually similar to first differencing approaches in time-series or panel models, except the index for time is replaced with an index for locations in space. The SFD design identifies plausibly causal effects, even when no instruments are available, so long as local changes in the treatment and unobservable confounders are not systematically correlated between immediately adjacent neighbors. We demonstrate the SFD approach by recovering new cross-sectional estimates for the effects of time-invariant geographic factors, soil and climate, on long-run average crop productivities across US counties — relationships that are notoriously confounded by unobservables but crucial for guiding economic decisions, such as land management and climate policy.
Q51|"What's in a Name? A Systematic Search for Alternatives to ""VSL"""|Benefit-cost analyses of environmental, health, and safety regulations often rely on an estimate of the “value of statistical life,” or VSL, to calculate the aggregate benefits of human mortality risk reductions in monetary terms. The VSL represents the marginal rate of substitution between mortality risk and money, and while well-understood by economists, to many non-economists, decision-makers, media professionals, and others, the term resembles obfuscated jargon bordering on the immoral. This paper describes a series of seven focus groups in which we applied a systematic approach for identifying and testing alternatives to the VSL terminology. Our objective was to identify a term that better communicates the VSL concept. Specifically, a list of 17 alternatives to the VSL term was developed and tested in focus groups that culminated in a formal ranking exercise. Using a round-robin tournament approach to analyze the data, and our qualitative judgments, we identify “value of reduced mortality risk” as the dominant replacement term among the alternatives tested.
Q51|Muddying the Water? An Analysis of Non-Constant Baselines in Stated Preference Surveys|Defining baseline conditions is a key component of regulatory benefit-cost analysis. Most stated preference studies assume that the current state of the world in the absence of additional policy action remains constant. In the time that passes while a regulation is evaluated, implemented, and produces the intended environmental impacts, however, this is unlikely to be the case. To address this largely unexplored area of nonmarket valuation, we administer a stated preference survey using a three-way split sample design. Respondents are either told future baseline conditions would remain constant, decline, or improve without additional policy interventions. While we find some evidence to support predictions of the standard theoretical model, we also find that behavioral and emotional reactions to the non-constant baseline scenarios muddy the waters, introducing some countervailing factors. These results have implications for the design and use of stated preference results in benefit-cost analysis.
Q51|Preterm Birth and Economic Benefits of Reduced Maternal Exposure to Fine Particulate Matter|Preterm birth (PTB) is a predictor of infant mortality and later-life morbidity. Despite recent declines, PTB rates remain high in the United States. Growing research suggests a relationship between a mother’s exposure to air pollution and PTB of her baby. Many policy actions to reduce exposure to common air pollutants require benefit-cost analysis (BCA), and it’s possible that PTB will need to be included in BCA in the future. However, an estimate of the willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid PTB risk is not available, and a comprehensive alternative valuation of the health benefits of reducing pollutant-related PTB currently does not exist. This paper demonstrates a potential approach to assess economic benefits of reducing PTB resulting from environmental exposures when an estimate of WTP to avoid PTB risk is unavailable. We utilized a recent meta-analysis and county-level air quality and PTB data to estimate the potential health and economic benefits of a reduction in air pollution-related PTB, with fine particulate matter (PM2.5) as our case study pollutant. Using this method, a simulated 10% decrease from 2008 PM2.5 levels resulted in a reduction of 5,016 PTBs and savings of at least $339 million, potentially reaching over one billion dollars when considering later-life effects of PTB.
Q51|Do Discrete Choice Approaches to Valuing Urban Amenities Yield Different Results Than Hedonic Models?|Amenities that vary across cities are typically valued using either a hedonic model, in which amenities are capitalized into wages and housing prices, or a discrete model of household location choice. In this paper, we use the 2000 Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) to value climate amenities using both methods. We compare estimates of marginal willingness to pay (MWTP), allowing preferences for climate amenities to vary by location. We find that mean MWTP for warmer winters is about twice as large using the discrete choice approach as with the hedonic approach; mean MWTP for cooler summers is approximately the same. The two approaches differ, however, in their estimates of taste sorting. The discrete choice model implies that households with the highest MWTP for warmer winters locate in cities with the mildest winters, while the hedonic model does not. Differences in estimates are due to primarily to two factors: (1) the discrete choice model incorporates the psychological costs of moving from one’s birthplace, which the hedonic models do not; (2) the discrete choice model uses information on market shares (i.e., population) in estimating parameters, which the hedonic model does not.
Q51|Economic assessment and valuations of environmental and health impacts caused by Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts|Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is being used in fluoropolymer production, as surface treatment agents and for the manufacture of side-chain fluorinated polymers. However, there is evidence that PFOA and its salts have a number of hazardous properties that may cause harm to human health and the environment. This report evaluates existing economic assessments and valuations of impacts arising from PFOA and its salts.
Q51|Economic valuation in 1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) regulation|This paper gives an overview of economic assessments of the benefits of the control of 1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), an organic solvent, used in a number of sectors. Health risks associated with the manufacture of NMP include the risk of stillbirth and developmental retardation to pregnant workers, as well as a variety of chronic and acute effects, including respiratory effects.
Q51|Economic assessments of the benefits of regulating mercury: A review|This paper gives an overview of economic assessments of the benefits of the control of emissions of mercury compounds, discusses their completeness from a social cost point of view, and discusses the relative magnitudes of the values attached to mercury compounds in different contexts. The majority of the assessments have been conducted in the context of coal-fired electricity generation and the valuation of human health impacts linked to ingestion of methylmercury.
Q51|Socio-economic assessment of phthalates|This paper gives an overview of economic assessments of the benefits of the control of exposure to phthalates, a group of chemicals with numerous uses, most importantly, as a plasticiser to make rigid plastics like PVC flexible. There is significant concern that these substances can act as endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), affecting both human health and ecosystems.
Q51|Economic valuation in formaldehyde regulation|This paper gives an overview of economic assessments of the benefits of the control of formaldehyde and reflects on developments in its risk management and regulation. Formaldehyde is used in the manufacture of resins, as a disinfectant and fixative and as a preservative in consumer products. Formaldehyde exposure can be harmful to human health.
Q51|Assessing the economic valuation of the benefits of regulating chemicals: Lessons learned from five case studies|This paper reviews and compares five case studies on quantification and economic valuation of benefits in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of regulating phthalates, mercury, PFOA (perfluoro-octanic acid) and its salts, NMP (1 methyl-2-pyrroloidine) and formaldehyde. The case studies had all been carried out as part of the SACAME project, and the purpose of the present paper is to draw out cross-cutting findings from these studies.
Q51|Pricing Carbon Under Economic and Climactic Risks: Leading-Order Results from Asymptotic Analysis|Leading-order results from asymptotic analysis for the optimal price of carbon under uncertainty are derived from a macroeconomic continuous-time DSGE model with AK growth, energy use, adjustment costs, recursive utility and costs of global warming. We consider non-climatic productivity growth uncertainty, atmospheric carbon uncertainty, climate sensitivity uncertainty and climate damage uncertainty. Explicit expressions are derived that show the leading-order dependence of the optimal carbon price on these uncertainties, the various climate betas, risk aversion, intergenerational inequality aversion and convexity of the climate damage specification. Our solution allows for skewness and mean reversion in stochastic shocks to the climate sensitivity and damage coefficients. The resulting rule for the optimal risk-adjusted carbon price incorporates precautionary, risk-insurance and risk-exposure effects to deal with future economic and climatic risks. The stochastic processes are calibrated and used to estimate and interpret the impact of each source of uncertainty on the optimal risk-adjusted carbon price.
Q51|Anatomy of the Rise and Fall of a Price-Fixing Conspiracy: Auctions at Sotheby's and Christie's|The Sotheby's–Christie's price-fixing scandal that ended in the public trial of Alfred Taubman provides a unique window on a number of key economic and antitrust policy issues. The trial provided detailed evidence as to how the price-fixing worked, and the economic conditions under which it was started and began to fall apart. The role of the amnesty program was important to the case, and does not appear to have had a role in the cartel's enforcement of price-fixing or the cartel's demise. The outcome of the case also provides evidence on the auction process used to choose the lead counsel for the civil settlement. Finally, though buyers received the bulk of the damages, a straightforward application of the economic theory of auctions shows that it is unlikely that successful buyers as a group were injured.
Q51|The cost of floods in developing countries’ megacities: A hedonic price analysis of the Jakarta housing market, Indonesia|Although many megacities in developing countries experience floods that affect a large number of people, relatively few empirical studies have evaluated the costs involved. This paper estimates such costs by conducting a hedonic price analysis of the impacts of floods on the housing market in Jakarta. A robust regression technique on a simple linear transformation model, and a maximum likelihood estimation technique on the spatial lag version of the simple linear transformation model are utilized to estimate the correlation between the level of the 2007 floods and monthly housing rental prices in Jakarta, Indonesia. This paper concludes that in developing countries’ megacities the total cost of floods is not as considerable as the total estimated cost of making the city of Jakarta floodfree
Q51|Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives|Between mountain regions and biodiversity exists a direct and indissoluble link: the mountain areas represent, perhaps, the most important source of eco-systems at global level, true scientific laboratories for researching and learning about the evolution and distribution of species and live bodies, about the relationships between these and about their adjustment to various environments and about the crucial influences of human actions, that led to the current climate changes. The mountains operate as true refuge for endemic species affected by uncontrolled human actions, while alpine meadows are exposed to losses of traditional pasture practices. The diverse and complex mountainous regions are the core elements of the environmental and sustainable development policies, the difficulties and problems encountered by these areas in adjusting to the new climate changes requiring adequate, swift and especially permanent (continuously supported) measures. The mountains belong, as a rule, to environmental geography but, just the same, they may be analysed also from the economic, social, cultural viewpoint, etc. as their multi-disciplinary nature is acknowledged both in the academic milieu but also by the decision factors involved in territorial development policy. Recently, the New Economic Geography, promoted intensively at global level, considers economic and social development of mountain regions of particular importance: mountain areas are important sources for raw materials and materials necessary for basic output and consumption (agriculture, industry, services) an aspect which affects under the present circumstances, both biodiversity and the living standard of local communities. The economic perspective is of particular importance both at the level of regional groups of interest, but the more so at the local level for the communities depending directly and permanently on the resources and conditions provided by the mountain. The negative impact on the mountain area of economic activities is increasingly more visible both at high and low altitude and therefore it should lead to a common vision and sustainable approach regarding the state of the biodiversity for this area because affecting a habitat might attract also the destruction of the entire ecologic balance which is already very fragile nowadays. Having as starting point the above considerations, the present paper provides a broad image of the relationship between the biodiversity of the mountain area and the implications of its economic and social development by resorting foremost to national and international documentary sources, to statistic data and information which attempt to complete the global image about the evolution of the relationship in time and space.
Q51|A Multi-dimensional Measure of Environmental Behavior: Exploring the Predictive Power of Connectedness to Nature, Ecological Worldview and Environmental Concern|Abstract In this study we examine the multi-dimensional structure of environmental behavior and its potential domains. Factor analysis reveals six behavioral domains: civic actions, policy support, recycling, transportation choices, behaviors in a household setting and consumerism. We use the Connectedness to Nature and Inclusion of Nature in Self scales to measure connection with nature, the New Environmental Paradigm to measure ecological worldviews, and Environmental Motives Scale to assess people’s environmental concern. We further explore the predictive power of connectedness to nature, ecological worldview, and environmental concern for explaining the diverse behavioral domains. Connectedness to nature and ecological worldview were more predictive of civic actions, recycling, household behaviors, and consumerism than were environmental concerns. In the case of policy support and transportation choices, environmental concerns explained more variance than the other constructs.
Q51|Spatiotemporal distribution of inclusive wealth data: An illustrated guide|In this paper we develop an illustrated guide for IWR2017 data. Graphical representations aim to reveal the multi-layer nature of IWR data with self-explanatory schemes. There are four parts of the analysis. In the first part, we present the spatial distribution of the three types of capitals - natural, human and produced - associated to social well-being. In the second part, we illustrate capitals’ temporal variation over 1990-2014, on different geographical and economic backgrounds. We investigate the dynamic evolution of capital assets and capture the key trend among different geographical regions and among regions with different economic growth. The third part makes an additional focus on natural capital and its spatial distribution over different income levels and regions. The forth part examines the causal relation between pollution and wealth. All four research questions are confronted with ease, clarity, and accuracy, with digital methods for mapping. A variety of graphical styles and/or forms is employed to indicate the resource use, capital exploitation trends of countries of different economic integration, uncover policies per income level.
Q51|Health status, mental health and air quality: evidence from pensioners in Europe|Environmental quality is an important determinant of individuals’ well-being and one of the main concerns of the governments is the improvement on air quality and the protection of public health. This is especially the case of sensitive demographic groups, such as the old aged people. However, the question this study attempts to answer is how do individuals value the effects on the environment. The study explores the effects of old and early public pension schemes, as well as the impact of air pollution on health status of retired citizens. The empirical analysis relies on detailed micro-level data derived from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). As proxies for health, we use the general health status and the Eurod mental health indicator.We examine two air pollutants: the sulphur dioxide (SO2) and ground-level ozone (O3). Next, we calculate the marginal willingness-to-pay (MWTP) which shows how much the people are willing to pay for improvement in air quality. We apply various quantitative techniques and approaches, including the fixed effects ordinary least squares (OLS) and the fixed effects instrumental variables (IV) approach. The last approach is applied to reduce the endogeneity problem coming from possible reverse causality between the air pollution, pensions and the health outcomes. For robustness check, we apply also a structural equation modelling (SEM) which is proper when the outcomes are latent variables. Based on our favoured IV estimates and the health status, we find that the MWTP values for one unit decrease in SO2 and O3 are respectively €221 and €88 per year. The respectiveMWTP values using the Eurod measure are €155 and €68. Overall, improvement of health status implies reduction in health expenditures, and in previous literature, ageing has been traditionally considered the most important determinant. However, this study shows that health lifestyle and socio-economic status, such as education and marital status, are more important, and furthermore, air pollution cannot be ignored in the agenda of policy makers.
Q51|Synthesizing Cash for Clunkers: Stabilizing the Car Market, Hurting the Environment|We examine the impact of European car scrappage programs on new vehicle registrations and respective CO2 emissions. To construct proper counterfactuals, we develop MSCM-T, the multivariate synthetic control method using time series of economic predictors. Applying MSCM-T to a rich data set covering two outcomes of interest, ten economic predictors, and 23 countries, we first analyze Germany which implemented the largest program. We find that the German subsidy had an immensely positive effect of 1.3 million program-induced new car registrations. Disentangling this effect reveals that almost one million purchases were not pulled forward from future periods, worth more than three times the program's 5 billion budget. However, stabilizing the car market came at the cost of 2.4 million tons of additional CO2 emissions. For other European countries with comparable car retirement schemes, we show further positive results regarding vehicle registrations. Finally, we demonstrate that all non-scrapping countries could have considerably backed their vehicle markets by adopting scrappage subsidies.
Q51|Analysing last century’s occurrence and impacts of technological and complex environmental hazards|The purpose of the paper is to present the occurrence and fatalities of the technological and complex environmental hazards and draw an initial picture of concentration if there is any. For that reason, aggregate regional tables are used as well as map visualizations created in R- studio. As it is shown, there appears to be a space concentration on the natural environmental hazards that need to be deeply examined with the use of advanced econometric techniques.
Q51|Le comportement des citoyens face aux questions environnementales : cas de service des déchets urbains en Algérie<BR>[The behavior of citizens facing environmental issues : case of service of urban waste in Algeria]|We used the contingent valuation method to determine and analyze the factors that influence citizens' behavior regarding environmental issues related to the service of urban waste in Algeria via the willingness to pay (WTP). Two surveys were conducted, one aimed at assessing how the decision to participate financially in a waste management program differs between respondents in relation to socio-professional characteristics. The other survey seeks to answer a problem related to the effort made by the consumer to sort his packaging waste and especially plastic bottles through a deposit system. The results reveal that the significant factors determining the decision of the WTP are in addition to the socioprofessional variables of the individuals, the type of dwelling and the distance compared to the discharge, the place of residence and the implication in associative movements.
Q51|An empirical examination of reducing status quo bias in heterogeneous populations: evidence from the South African water sector|Choice experiments typically include a status quo option, which often describes the current scenario. This is to secure the validity and applicability of choice experiments. People have a propensity to choose what they are familiar with, despite being presented with alternatives that seem better (i.e. the ‘status quo effect’). Various experiments have reliably demonstrated this effect. The tendency to prefer the current scenario disproportionally does not mimic real-life preferences; therefore, status quo bias is undesirable. In a split sample framework, we test for the effects of reducing status quo bias by considering a heterogeneous sample. We use generalised mixed logit models to carry out the tests. The tests reveal that presenting each split sample with a partially relevant status quo significantly reduces the status quo bias problem.
Q51|Quantifying benefit losses from poor governance of climate change adaptation projects: A discrete choice experiment with farmers in Kenya|Climate change impacts pose a great challenge to agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa as droughts become more frequent and more severe. A major roadblock to implementing climate change adaptation measures is poor governance. Given their experience with governing organizations, farmers are highly suitable respondents to assess the appropriateness of different governing organizations to implement adaptation measures on the ground. We surveyed 300 farmers in Makueni County in Kenya applying the choice experiment method to assess their preferences in relation to different attributes of a sand storage dam project to enhance rainwater harvesting as an adaptation measure. Attributes include the organization governing the dam construction, dam wall height and volume of water harvested, the type of pump used to distribute water, number of tree rows planted to prevent silting, and labor time farmers are willing to contribute to dam construction. Responses were analyzed using the mixed logit model. Our key result shows that farmers prefer an NGO as the governing organization, followed closely by a farmer network and, with some distance, a government institution. For the whole of Makueni County, we find that benefit losses of $ 482,766 occur if farmer networks are the governing organizations instead of NGOs and $ 2,679,706 if government institutions govern the dam construction instead of NGOs. While the importance of governance structures for development is well-known, our study is novel as it quantifies the benefit losses that occur due to poor governance in the field of climate change adaptation. On a methodological level, our study contributes to improving the application of choice experiments in developing countries as it draws attention to the careful selection of the payment vehicle. In terms of policy recommendations, our results suggest that substantial benefit losses may occur if appropriate governing organizations are not selected when implementing much needed climate adaptation measures.
Q51|The Revealed Preference Methods in Economic Valuation of Environmental Goods: A Review|The environmental goods and services have often been neglected in crucial decisions affecting the environment mainly because the difficulty in estimating their economic value, since we are dealing with non-market goods and, thus, without a price associated. Nevertheless, the inexistence of prices does not necessarily mean these goods have no value. The environment is a key element in today's society that seeks to be as sustainable as possible, where the environmental assets have both use and non-use values. To estimate the use value, researchers may apply the revealed preference methods. This paper provides a theoretical review of the main concepts and methodologies on the economic valuation of the environment, with particular emphasis on the revealed preference techniques. Based on a detailed literature review, this study concludes that, despite some inherent limitations, the revealed preference methodologies are valuable tools for the economic evaluation of the environment. The main purpose of this study is to contribute to an increased theoretical information on the economic valuation of environmental assets, allowing researchers and policy makers to improve future decisions regarding the environment.
Q51|Climate Change and Agriculture: Farmer Adaptation to Extreme Heat|This paper examines how farmers adapt, in the short-run, to extreme heat. Using a production function approach and micro-data from Peruvian households, we find that high temperatures induce farmers to increase the use of inputs, such as land and domestic labor. This reaction partially attenuates the negative effects of high temperatures on output. We interpret this change in inputs as an adaptive response in a context of subsistence farming, incomplete markets, and lack of other coping mechanisms. We use our estimates to simulate alternative climate change scenarios and show that accounting for adaptive responses is quantitatively important.
Q51|Natural disaster Risk and the Distributional Dynamics of Damages|Literature on climate change and extreme events has found conflicting and often weak results on the evolution of economic damages related to natural disasters, although climate change is likely to bring about an increase in their magnitude (Van Aalst, 2006; IPCC, 2007, 2012). These studies usually focus on trend detection, typically employing mean regression techniques on yearly summed data. Using EM-DAT data, we enrich the analysis of natural disasters’ risk by characterizing the behavior of the entire distribution of economic (and human) losses, especially high quantiles. We also envisage a novel normalization procedure to control for exposure (e.g. number and value of assets at risk, inflation), so to ensure spatial and temporal comparability of hazards. Employing moments and quantiles analysis and non-parametric kernel density estimations, we find a rightward shift and a progressive right-tail fattening process of the global distribution of economic damages both on yearly and decade aggregated data. Moreover, a battery of quantile regressions provide evidence supporting a substantial increase in the upper quantiles of the economic damage distribution (upper quantiles of human losses tend to decrease globally over time, mostly due to adaptation to storms and floods, but with a worrying polarization between rich and poor countries). Such estimates might be even conservative, given the nature of biases possibly affecting the dataset. Our results shows that mean regressions underestimate systematically the real contribution of the right tail of the damage distribution in shaping the trend itself.
Q51|On the Effects of Linking Voluntary Cap-and-Trade Systems for CO2 Emissions|Linkage of cap-and-trade systems is typically advocated by economists on a general analogy with the beneficial linking of free-trade areas and on the specific grounds that linkage will ensure cost effectiveness among the linked jurisdictions. An appropriate and widely accepted specification for the damages of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions within a relatively short (say 5-10 year) period is that marginal damages for each jurisdiction are constant (although they can differ among jurisdictions). With this defensible assumption, the analysis is significantly clarified and yields simple closed-form expressions for all CO2 permit prices. Some implications for linked and unlinked voluntary CO2 cap-and-trade systems are derived and discussed.
Q51|Social norms and pro-environment behaviours: heterogeneous response to signals|Previous research on pro-environment behaviours demonstrated an effect of communicating social norms to subjects. In this paper, we extend this work by isolating the effects of information about (i) the absolute level (strength) of the norm (ii) its geographic proximity (iii) whether the norm is stated in relative terms. We also show how previous pro-environmental behaviours interact with social norm information. The context is a stated preference choice experiment on recycling behaviours by households in Poland. The main finding to emerge is that social norm effects on preferences seem to be very context-dependent; there is no evidence of generalizable effects which would be useful to policy designers.
Q51|The Impact of Climate Change on U.S. Agriculture: The Roles of Adaptation Techniques and Emissions Reductions|We investigate the impact of climate change on U.S. agricultural productivity using county-level yield and weather data from 1950 to 2015. We present two new methods of modelling how producers adapt agricultural techniques to harsh temperatures, including a new panel data estimator that allows for two-dimensional fixed-effects in slopes. We find evidence of adaptation to geographic and temporal variation in climate, but it has stalled since 1989. We show that adaptation implies fixed-effects slope heterogeneity in the relationship between crop yield and temperature, and ignoring this leads to biased estimates of temperature sensitivity. We use our estimates to project corn yields to 2100 using a variety of climate models and emission scenarios, and find that unmitigated climate change will have severe effects on yields. Our models indicate that adaptation techniques can mitigate 10 to 45% of the damage, but significant emissions reductions can mitigate far more (i.e., 42 to 91%).
Q51|Toward a better understanding of elicitation effects in stated preference studies|Empirical evidence accumulated over several decades suggests that survey-based welfare measures for public goods can be very sensitive to the format of the value elicitation, e.g., an up-or-down vote or an open-ended willingness-to-pay question. The underlying drivers of these effects remain poorly understood. As myriad formats are employed in practice, this raises concerns for both academics and policymakers. We design and implement a controlled experiment to cleanly test for elicitation effects among a set of four oft-used formats: single binary choice, double-bounded binary choice, payment card, and open-ended. The experiment retains important field context properties (e.g., the funding of a public, environmental good) and varies only the elicitation format, while holding fixed ancillary characteristics of the elicitations (such as framing, decision rule, payment method, and incentive compatibility). We find all formats lead to statistically identical welfare estimates. On one hand, this evidence suggests that variance in design characteristics other than the elicitation format may explain some prior results. On the other, to the extent that characteristics of our elicitations can be mirrored in the field, this offers a pathway for mitigating elicitation effects.
Q51|Earthquake risk embedded in property prices: Evidence from five Japanese cities|We analyze the impact of short-run and long-run earthquake risk on Japanese property prices. We exploit a rich panel data set of property characteristics, ward attractiveness information, macroeconomic variables, seismic hazard data, and historical earthquake occurrences, supplemented with short-run earthquake probabilities that we generate from a seismic excitation model. We design a hedonic property price model that allows for probability weighting, employ a multivariate error components structure, and develop associated maximum likelihood estimation and variance computation procedures. We find that distorted short-run and long-run earthquake probabilities have a significantly negative impact on property prices. Our approach enables us to identify the total compensation for earthquake risk embedded in property prices and to decompose this into pieces stemming from short-run and long-run risk, and to further decompose this into objective and distorted risk components.
Q51|Mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia: desigualdades territoriales en el acceso a los servicios de salud|A pesar de los esfuerzos realizados para reducir la mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, y de la implementación del Seguro Universal Materno Infantil (SUMI), los datos revelan que el progreso ha sido más lento que lo logrado en cuanto a la reducción de la mortalidad infantil en general. En ese contexto, el interés principal de esta investigación es definir las características de la mortalidad neonatal en el país. El estudio parte del análisis econométrico de los datos de la Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (ENDSA) de 2008. El objetivo es visualizar cómo el lugar de procedencia incide en el riesgo de muerte del recién nacido. Los hallazgos revelan que, en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, el riesgo de muerte neonatal está condicionado por el acceso a los servicios de salud, debido a las disparidades territoriales a nivel urbano y rural. Estas disparidades se traducen en barreras de acceso económicas, geográficas y de exclusión que disminuyen la equidad en el acceso y la utilización de los servicios de salud, refuerzan los determinantes sociales que inciden en la muerte del recién nacido y limitan el acceso a intervenciones oportunas y adecuadas en la atención materno-neonatal.
Q51|Can stated measures of willingness-to-accept be valid? Evidence from laboratory experiments|Willingness-to-accept (WTA) questions have been largely abandoned in stated preference empirical work in favor of eliciting willingness-to-pay (WTP) responses, mainly due to perceived unreliability of questions that ask respondents for compensation amounts. This paper reassesses whether stated WTA welfare measures can be valid in public and private good contexts. We conduct two sets of laboratory experiments to analyze whether elicitation format, survey design and framing, and follow-up questions can generate truthful responses. For public goods, we adapt the existing WTP incentive compatibility theoretical framework to the WTA context and test the theory using an experiment involving voting. Results are consistent with the WTP literature and suggest that WTA values can be valid as long as responses have consequences for respondents. For the private good experiment, we focus on whether respondents are motivated to affect the price or the provision of the good. We find that strategic behavior is present and in the direction expected by theory. Survey framing and the use of follow-up questions can provide bounds on the value estimates. These findings raise potential concerns with the use of non-incentive compatible elicitation mechanisms in WTA contexts.
Q51|Economic Values of Coastal Erosion Management: Joint Estimation of Use and Passive Use Values with Recreation Demand and Contingent Valuation Data|Revealed and stated preference survey data from North Carolina households are utilized to estimate a joint structural microeconometric model of recreation demand and willingness-to-pay (WTP) for coastal erosion management among beach visitors and non-visitors. We test for and reject weak complementarity, implying existence of non-use values associated with management of North Carolina’s coastal resources. We find stronger preferences for shoreline retreat (median WTP = $22.20 per household, per year) as a management strategy relative to beach nourishment (WTP = $7.45) and substantially weaker preferences for shoreline armoring (WTP = $0.09). Shoreline retreat exhibits much larger estimates of non-use values, whereas non-use values for shoreline armoring are negative. Minimizing negative environmental impacts of erosion management increases WTP over 200%. Our data permit estimates of marginal value of incremental beach width accruing to beach users and non-users (which ranges from $0.23 and $0.47 per meter). Key Words: recreation; demand; beach; erosion; management; economic; value
Q51|Climate change and the macro-economy: a critical review|Climatic factors can directly affect economic outcomes such as output, investment and productivity, and understanding the economic consequences of climate change is becoming a necessity not just for climate economists but also for a wider range of economic professionals involved in modelling and forecasting macroeconomic variables. The focus of this review is on the key theoretical and empirical modelling issues in the analysis of the macroeconomic risks deriving from climate change. The paper develops the taxonomy introduced by a number of previous Bank of England studies, which distinguish between physical and transition risks of climate change. The paper then identifies the different channels through which these risks are transmitted to the macro-economy, either through (unpredictable) economic shocks or through predictable, longer-term impacts. The different approaches to modelling these macroeconomic effects are then discussed and assessed in light of the increasing need to routinely monitor and quantify the impact of emerging climate change risks on the economy.
Q51|Projeção dos impactos econômicos regionais do desastre de Mariana-MG|The large-scale economic damage and losses caused by disasters have attracted the attention of specialists who are studying ways of modeling that kind of impacts. In face of the deep losses and damages caused by the disaster in Mariana, on November 5th, 2015, this work aims to project the main regional economic impacts of the event. The main contribution is to provide methodology and results that will collaborate in the evaluation of the economic effects of the disaster. To do so, we have developed a dynamic model of Computable General Equilibrium, especially built for municipalities directly and indirectly affected by the disaster, in order to capture the regional economic impacts in the period from 2016 to 2020. The results indicate that, generally, the five-year post disaster were insufficient for the retake of production, family consumption, employment, investment and trade, even in the event of the resumption of the total Mariana production in 2018. In addition, the results suggest a great interdependence in the absorption of negative impacts by the regions along the Doce river
Q51|Eliciting and Utilizing Willingness to Pay: Evidence from Field Trials in Northern Ghana|We demonstrate the benefits and feasibility of using the Becker-DeGroot-Marschak (BDM) mechanism to elicit precise, individual-level willingness to pay and thereby enhance the information generated by randomized experiments. With a relatively small sample and minor modifications to a standard field experiment design, we can directly estimate demand, study the effect of prices on usage through screening and psychological (sunk-cost) effects, and compute heterogeneous marginal treatment effects. Applying the mechanism to a field experiment studying clean drinking water technology in northern Ghana, we show that even in an environment with low literacy and numeracy, BDM produces sensible results. We find that although willingness to pay for clean water technology is low relative to the cost, demand is surprisingly inelastic at low prices; prices do not generate significant sunk-cost effects; and treatment effects are heterogeneous with respect to valuation and consistent with outcomes being affected by effort expenditure.
Q51|The demand for global and local environmental protection: Experimental evidence from climate change mitigation in Beijing|In this study, the real demand for global and local environmental protection in Beijing, China, is elicited and investigated. Participants from Beijing were offered the opportunity to contribute to voluntary climate change mitigation by purchasing permits from two Chinese CO2 emissions trading schemes (ETS). Purchased permits were withdrawn from the ETS. Since CO2 emissions mitigation is inevitably linked to other local benefits like the reduction in emissions of air pollutants, the aim of our study is to establish the demand for local and global environmental protection. To this end, Beijing and Shenzhen ETS permits were offered. The result is that at low prices the demand for Beijing ETS permits is significantly higher than for Shenzhen ETS permits indicating that a substantial part of the revealed demand for voluntary climate change mitigation in Beijing is driven by concerns for local co-benefits of CO2 emissions reduction. Our research identifies the important role of private benefits in the voluntary provision of the global public good climate change mitigation and provides first experimental evidence for China.
Q51|On the effects of linking voluntary cap-and-trade systems for CO2 emissions|Linkage of cap-and-trade systems is typically advocated by economists on a general analogy with the beneficial linking of free-trade areas and on the specific grounds that linkage will ensure cost effectiveness among the linked jurisdictions. An appropriate and widely accepted specification for the damages of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions within a relatively short (say 5-10 year) period is that marginal damages for each jurisdiction are constant (although they can differ among jurisdictions). With this defensible assumption, the analysis is significantly clarified and yields simple closedform expressions for all CO2 permit prices. Some implications for linked and unlinked voluntary CO2 cap-and-trade systems are derived and discussed.
Q51|Is Western European Agriculture Resilient to High Temperatures?|We estimate a Ricardian model of Western European agricultural land values using farm-level data. We model the effect of temperature on land values using a flexible specification of daily mean temperature to test if there are temperature threshold effects. Results indicate that there are no temperature thresholds beyond which agricultural land values suddenly drop. The results are robust to alternative model specifications. Adaptation explains why a smooth aggregate response function is compatible with sharply non-linear crop yield functions. With adaptation, the effect of warming on Western European agriculture is likely to be smooth.
Q51|Retos asociados al uso del suelo: El dilema entre conservación y producción en los Bosques Andinos de Robles del Corredor Ecológico Guantiva-La Rusia-Iguaque|Preservar los Bosques Andinos de Robles es de gran importancia dado su valor intrínseco y los servicios ecosistémicos ofrecidos que favorecen el bienestar humano. No obstante, las prácticas de ganadería extensiva en el territorio nacional generan presión sobre su existencia. Aplicando un modelo de optimización dinámica que considera el valor del bosque por diversos servicios ecosistémicos, se busca entender el trade-off entre conservación y ganadería, así como las complejas relaciones entre los hombres y la naturaleza. De acuerdo a los resultados, debería conservarse entre el 62.7% y 99.4% del bosque dependiendo de la magnitud y valores de los parámetros. Finalmente, este documento busca aportar a la discusión sobre recomendaciones de política que favorezcan la conservación de los ecosistemas boscosos.
Q51|Climate Variability and Theft in Colombia|The objective of this study is to estimate the causal impact of the most recent extreme weather event (EWE) in Colombia (‘La Niña’ between 2010-2011), labelled as the ‘winter wave’ by the local media, on persons, houses, business and car theft rates in municipalities subject to the treatment of this EWE. Using a novel annual municipal panel dataset (2007-2012, inclusive), and measuring the affected areas according to the number of houses damaged and destroyed, this study relies on a Difference-in-Difference (D-i-D) model to show that the concurrent year of the winter wave brought a decrease in theft rates, especially, theft from persons. This may be perhaps attributable to the emergence of pro-social behaviour in the municipalities most affected. We also find an increase in theft from houses possibly linked to a ‘survival mechanism’, rather than one that one that seeks reward like the type the BECKER (1968) model of crime and punishment. In addition, the D-i-D estimates also reveal that the presence of conflict, in general, discourages theft perhaps due to the establishment of coercive institutions by illegal armed groups.
Q51|Crecimiento verde inclusivo e informalidad|El presente trabajo realiza un análisis de la informalidad y el crecimiento verde inclusivo, con énfasis en los sectores de minería, actividades agropecuarias, silvicultura, construcción y manejo de residuos. La informalidad se estima para las unidades productivas desde el punto de vista de la normativa laboral, empresarial, ambiental y de títulos. El crecimiento verde inclusivo, se mide mezclando las metodologías utilizadas para estimar el Índice de Crecimiento Sostenible del WEF, y el Índice EPI, de la Universidad de Yale. Además de hacer evidentes las altísimas tasas de informalidad en los sectores seleccionados, la conclusión principal de este trabajo es que predomina una relación positiva entre formalidad y buen desempeño ambiental y esta relación se muestra robusta y significativa, aún después de controlar por variables observables como el tamaño, el sector, la geografía y la educación (como proxy de ingresos). Aunque no es posible realizar un ejercicio de causalidad, nuestros resultados sugieren que la relación entre las dos variables se explica principalmente por determinantes comunes. Bajo este entendido y después de realizar un análisis de ecuaciones simultáneas para establecer los determinantes del desempeño ambiental y laboral, formulamos algunas recomendaciones de política.
Q51|Temperature, Climate Change, and Mental Health: Evidence from the Spectrum of Mental Health Outcomes|This paper characterizes the link between ambient temperatures and a broad set of mental health measures. We find that the realization of low temperatures leads to fewer self-reported days of poor mental health, fewer mental-health related emergency department visits, and fewer suicides. Conversely, exposure to more hot days is associated with more days of self-reported poor mental health, more mental health-related emergency department visits, and higher rates of suicide. We consider the efficacy of a number of potential mitigating factors including access to mental health services and residential penetration of air conditioning, among others. We find that the identified relationship is insensitive to all considered modulating factors and has not moderated over time, suggesting a lack of effective adaptation. We offer evidence for sleep quality as the mechanism by which temperatures impact mental health and discuss the implications of our findings in light of climate change.
Q51|Pricing Carbon Under Economic and Climatic Risks: Leading-Order Results from Asymptotic Analysis|Leading-order results from asymptotic analysis for the optimal price of carbon under uncertainty are derived from a macroeconomic continuous-time DSGE model with AK growth, energy use, adjustment costs, recursive utility and costs of global warming. We consider non-climatic productivity growth uncertainty, atmospheric carbon uncertainty, climate sensitivity uncertainty and climate damage uncertainty. Explicit expressions are derived that show the leading-order dependence of the optimal carbon price on these uncertainties, the various climate betas, risk aversion, intergenerational inequality aversion and convexity of the climate damage specification. Our solution allows for skewness and mean reversion in stochastic shocks to the climate sensitivity and damage coefficients. The resulting rule for the optimal risk-adjusted carbon price incorporates precautionary, risk-insurance and risk-exposure effects to deal with future economic and climatic risks. The stochastic processes are calibrated and used to estimate and interpret the impact of each source of uncertainty on the optimal risk-adjusted carbon price.
Q51|Policies for decarbonizing a liberalized power sector|Given the agreed urgency of decarbonizing electricity and the need to guide decentralized private decisions, an adequate and credible carbon price appears essential. The paper models and quantifies the break-even carbon price for mature zero-carbon electricity investments. It appears an attractive alternative given the difficulty of measuring the social cost of carbon, but modelling shows it extremely sensitive to projected fuel prices, the rate of interest, and the capital cost of generation options, all of which are very uncertain. This has important implications, and justifies combining a carbon price floor with suitable long-term contracts for electricity investments.
Q51|Forecasting CO2 emissions: Does the choice of estimator matter?|Extant studies in the literature on carbon emissions have done so using numerous methodologies. However, the Environmental Kuznets Curve has remained the workhorse for modelling the link between development and emissions. This study sets out to test the predictability of the EKC hypothesis for CO2 emissions in the US and consequently offers to answer two key questions. First, does the choice of estimator matter for the predictability of EKC in forecasting CO2 emissions? Second, are the results sensitive to any of the following: measures of CO2 emission and output and multiple forecast periods? The results uphold the stance of the inverted U-shaped relationship postulated by the EKC hypothesis. Also, the choice of estimator matters for accurate forecast performance of EKC for CO2 measures. More importantly, any estimator that ignores the inherent statistical properties of the predictors such as endogeneity, conditional heteroscedasticity and persistence, among others, may produce less desirable forecasts than the time series models. This conclusion is valid regardless of the proxies for CO2 emissions and output.
Q51|Is there a market value for energy performance in a local private housing market? An efficiency analysis approach|This paper aims to find evidence of a “green value” in a local housing market using notarial data on a small urban area in France. We use frontier functions, an original approach that departs from customary hedonistic regressions, to model housing market prices as a production set bordered by an efficiency frontier estimated by Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). The paper tests if difference in prices (i.e. the distance from the frontier) can be explained by energy performance measured as a normalized categorical ascending kWh/m²/year grade (or Energy Performance Certificate -EPC). We show that there is significative evidence for energy performance's market value. The “Green Property Value” is estimated to range between 1% and 3% of the price for medium-high performance buildings. Our findings are robust to the specifications of the first (frontier estimation) and the second stage (residual analysis). We then propose a cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the return on retrofit investment a household would get from higher market value. We find that housing green property value accounts for a part, between 4.6% in houses and 6.6% in collective dwellings, of the real terms investment in energy retrofit. We interpret our findings with regard to spatial dependencies that affect the market and the heterogeneity between the private and the public social housing stocks.
Q51|High unknowability of climate damage valuation means the social cost of carbon will always be disputed|"The social cost of carbon (SCC), a carbon price calculated from cost-benefit based integrated assessment models and used to inform some climate policies, will always be highly disputed, partly because a key model assumption, the centennial climate damage valuation function (CDF), will ""always"" be highly unknowable. Current disputes are highlighted here by the huge range of SCCs resulting from alternative values of key parameters like discount rates, climate sensitivity and the CDF; by the implausibility to climate scientists of a leading model's warming projections; and by strong criticisms of mainstream CDFs by many climate economists. The claim that statistical analyses of ""weather"" impacts on local economies can improve centennial CDFs rests on untestable out-of-sample extrapolation. Compared to astronomy, geology and other earth sciences, prediction testing in climate science is generally harder because of Earth's uniqueness, and the unprecedented range and speed of likely centennial climate change, but stable underlying laws make modelling based on past observations meaningful. By contrast, the added complexity of human behaviour means there are no reliable laws for modelling centennial CDFs. For this reason alone, SCCs will always be disputed. I suggest instead more use of carbon prices based on marginal abatement costs, computed on cost-effective paths that achieve socially agreed, physical climate targets. Downplaying the SCC approach to carbon prices poses challenges to many economists, and a cost-effectiveness approach is no panacea, but it avoids the illusion of optimality, and allows more detailed analysis of many current climate policies."
Q51|Environmental Valuation and Benefit-Cost Analysis in U.K. Policy|This paper presents an evaluation of the use of environmental valuation – techniques to assign monetary values to environmental impacts of policies and projects, especially nonmarket impacts – in U.K. policy. In doing so, we seek to contribute to the debate, more generally, of the use and influence of benefit-cost analysis (BCA) in national policy processes such as Impact Assessment. Specifically, our contribution in this paper is two-fold. First, we identify a number of trends that have characterized U.K. policy use of environmental valuation over the past two or so decades. While this has notably involved development of “sharable values” allowing more widespread uptake, it also seems that different branches of government have developed different traditions of use adding nuance to what, on the face of it, is otherwise a shared endeavor. Second, we evaluate the extent to which the use of environmental valuation can be said to have influenced policy decisions and the degree to which this is embedded by evolving policy processes. As such, we discuss two areas of environmental policy – water quality improvements and natural capital – which have entailed either substantial use of environmental valuation either in determining specific policy and investment project options or where this has helped shape the broader policy agenda. Our evaluation is not exhaustive; nor do our findings suggest that environmental valuation and BCA are necessarily the dominant driver of decisions, as we discuss. However, in recognizing this, we argue it is also important to consider a number of established or evolving cultural and legal institutional processes which broadly appear to support our assessment of such cases.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q51|The Morbidity Cost of Air Pollution: Evidence from Consumer Spending in China|Developing and fast-growing economies have some of the worse air pollution in the world, but there is a lack of systematic evidence on the health especially morbidity impact of air pollution in these countries. Based on the universe of credit and debit card transactions in China from 2013 to 2015, this paper provides to our knowledge the first analysis of the morbidity cost of PM2.5 for the entire population of a developing country. To address potential endogeneity in pollution exposure, we construct an instrumental variable by modeling the spatial spillovers of PM2.5 due to long-range transport. We propose a flexible distributed-lag model that incorporates the IV approach to capture the dynamic response to past pollution exposure. Our analysis shows that PM2.5 has a significant impact on healthcare spending in both the short and medium terms that survives an array of robustness checks. The annual reduction in national healthcare spending from complying with the World Health Organization’s annual standard of 10 mg/m3 would amount to $42 billion, or nearly 7% of China’s total healthcare spending in 2015. In contrast to the common perception that the morbidity impact is modest relative to the mortality impact, our estimated morbidity cost of air pollution is about two-thirds of the mortality cost from the recent literature.
Q51|Estimating the Value of Crop Diversity Conservation Services Provided by the Czech National Programme for Agrobiodiversity|We estimate the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for conserving crop varieties for ten years in the Czech Republic using a double-bounded dichotomous choice model to analyze data collected with an online contingent valuation survey administered to a main country-wide sample of 1037 respondents and a smaller sub-sample of 500 representative of the agricultural region of South Moravia. Mean WTP was found to be about $9 for both the Czech and S. Moravian sub-samples, corresponding to country-wide benefits of $68 million. These benefits increase by 5% for every ten varieties conserved, implying total welfare benefits of $80 million for a program conserving the maximum number of 35 additional crop varieties. The study reveals the previously unmeasured social benefits of crop conservation activities in the Czech Republic, and illustrates an empirical approach of potential value for policymakers responsible for determining funding levels for genetic resource conservation.
Q51|Natural Disaster Risk and the Distributional Dynamics of Damages|Literature on climate change and extreme events has found conflicting and often weak results on the evolution of economic damages related to natural disasters, although climate change is likely to bring about an increase in their magnitude (Van Aalst, 2006; IPCC, 2007, 2012). These studies usually focus on trend detection, typically employing mean regression techniques on yearly summed data. Using EM-DAT data, we enrich the analysis of natural disasters' risk by characterizing the behavior of the entire distribution of economic (and human) losses, especially high quantiles. We also envisage a novel normalization procedure to control for exposure (e.g. number and value of assets at risk, inflation), so to ensure spatial and temporal comparability of hazards. Employing moments and quantiles analysis and non-parametric kernel density estimations, we find a rightward shift and a progressive right-tail fattening process of the global distribution of economic damages both on yearly and decade aggregated data. Moreover, a battery of quantile regressions provide evidence supporting a substantial increase in the upper quantiles of the economic damage distribution (upper quantiles of human losses tend to decrease globally over time, mostly due to adaptation to storms and floods, but with a worrying polarization between rich and poor countries). Such estimates might be even conservative, given the nature of biases possibly affecting the dataset. Our results shows that mean regressions underestimate systematically the real contribution of the right tail of the damage distribution in shaping the trend itself.
Q51|Disentangling the effects of policy and payment consequentiality and risk attitudes on stated preferences|Incentivizing respondents to truthfully reveal their preferences in stated preference surveys requires that they believe their survey responses can influence decisions related to the outcome in question (policy consequentiality) and that they will have to bear their share of the coercive cost if the outcome is implemented (payment consequentiality). We investigate the effects of these two aspects of perceived consequentiality on stated preferences in a field survey concerning renewable energy development in Poland. We find that beliefs in policy and payment consequentiality strengthen the respondents’ interest in having the project implemented. However, policy consequentiality decreases and payment consequentiality increases their sensitivity to the project cost, which, respectively, increases and decreases their willingness-to-pay for the project. We conclude that the two aspects of consequentiality should be addressed separately. Additionally, we inquire the theoretically speculated links between the respondents’ perceptions of policy and payment consequentiality and their risk attitudes, and we find no significant relationship.
Q51|Environmental attitudes and place identity as simultaneous determinants of preferences for environmental goods|Economic valuation is frequently employed to provide evidence of people's preferences for environmental goods. However, it is also often criticised for providing a simplified representation of preferences, with many factors that affect value formation not accounted for. This is the case of environmental attitudes and especially place identity perceptions, which have been largely overlooked in economic valuation, despite representing amongst the most important drivers of people's behaviour towards the environment, according to the environmental psychology and sociology literature. To address this gap, we designed and conducted a choice experiment where we explored the simultaneous role of environmental attitudes and place identity perceptions on willingness to pay (WTP), taking peatland restoration in Scotland as a case study. This study adds to the existing literature in that no valuation study to date has simultaneously integrated both aspects in preference modelling. Given that both factors are potentially strong drivers of preferences, focusing only on one or the other provides a partial picture of the determinants of WTP. Moreover, we do not just look at 'generic' environmental attitudes, but also at ‘specific’ environmental attitudes. Our results, estimated through a novel and econometrically robust approach based on the hybrid choice model, show that people with more positive environmental attitudes and those who feel attached to Scotland and think that peatlands are an important part of Scotland's identity and landscape tend to display higher WTP. These findings are important to provide a richer understanding of the determinants of preferences for environmental goods. Our results also open up new insights to the discipline in relation to the spatial heterogeneity of preferences: we have shown that people do not only relate with the space around them by focusing on the distance to the improvement site, as most frequently postulated in valuation studies. The idea that place can be understood as a space with emotional and cultural meanings also plays a critical role in shaping preferences. All these are critical elements to better inform policy-makers in the design of more socially acceptable and effective environmental policies.
Q51|Recreational Value of the Baltic Sea: a Spatially Explicit Site Choice Model Accounting for Environmental Conditions|The Baltic Sea plays a significant role for recreational use in the nine littoral countries with more than 70% of the population visiting the coast, representing some 80 million recreation visits annually. Understanding the values associated with coastal recreation and the potential welfare changes of improving the state of the Baltic Sea is important for managing the marine environment. We estimate a spatially explicit travel cost model of coastal site recreation to the Baltic Sea to assess the welfare of accessing individual sites, identify recreational hotspots and simulate the welfare changes resulting from improving environmental and infrastructure conditions. The total benefits associated with the Baltic Sea based recreation amount to 11.4 billion EUR per year with significant variation across sites. Improving water quality and infrastructure boost the recreational value by nearly 9 billion EUR, almost doubling the recreational benefits compared to current conditions.
Q51|Social Norms and Pro-Environment Behaviours: Heterogeneous Response to Signals|Previous research has demonstrated an effect on pro-environment behaviours such as household recycling from communicating social norm information to respondents. In this paper, we extend this work by considering the effects of varying (i) the absolute size (strength) of the norm (ii) its geographic scope (iii) whether the norm is stated in relative terms. We also show how previous behaviours interact with social norm information. The context is a stated preference choice experiment on recycling behaviours by households in Poland. The main finding to emerge is that social norm effects on preferences for recycling seem to be very context-dependent. There is no evidence of generalizable effects which would be useful to policy designers.
Q51|Moving beyond the contingent valuation versus choice experiment debate – Presentation effects in stated preference|We reexamine the literature comparing “contingent valuation” (“CV”) and “choice experiments” (“CEs”) in terms of stated preference design features, and empirically investigate an understudied dimension in these comparisons, namely presentation effects. Structured analysis of the literature suggests that the comparisons of “CV” and “CEs” as broad descriptive terms may mask the many design and methodological differences seen in implementations of the approaches. In the empirical component, we find preference disclosure to be unaffected by text and table presentation formats in elicitation tasks, except when only the first task is considered. Implications of our findings for stated preference research are discussed.
Q51|Impact of beliefs about negative effects of wind turbines on preference heterogeneity regarding renewable energy development in Poland|We investigate individuals’ preferences for renewable energy development in Poland. Our main objective is to examine whether preferences for avoiding externalities from renewable energy development near respondents’ place of residence are influenced by their personal beliefs about the negative effects of wind turbine activity. We focus on attitudes towards wind power because it has had the most dynamic development among all renewable energy sources in Poland. To elicit values on avoiding renewable energy externalities, we use a choice experiment (CE) approach. To conduct our analysis we applied a theoretically robust econometric approach, the hybrid mixed logit model. From our analysis of data from a large sample of the Polish population, we find that beliefs about wind turbine have distinct negative effects on respondents’ preferences concerning renewable energy development. Respondents who generally have an opinion about potential wind turbine effects would like to have input on renewable energy development in their neighbourhood. Latent beliefs that wind power is not harmful enhance respondents’ preferences for implementing a wind energy project and enhance preferences against solar power development. These beliefs appears to be significantly correlated with respondents’ marginal utility of money.
Q51|Regulation of Geo-blocking: does it address the problem of low intraEU iTrade?|The goal of the article is to critically verify and to discuss main areas necessary for increasing intraEU iTrade. To achieve this aim, the legal analysis of the regulation is confronted with the econometric approach identifying the main determinants of cross-border e-commerce. The model is based on data from a survey conducted among 6901 Polish business owners in 2017. Our hypotheses include the following issues: (1) the main barrier of intraEU iTrade is the low level of integration of digital technologies by SMEs; therefore (2) the character of the impact of legal means adopted in the regulation 2018/302 on the development of transnational service provision and entrepreneurship based on e-commerce is doubtful. We argue that the introduction of more and more advanced requirements by EC will only reduce their interest in developing business abroad through cross-border e-commerce and result in losing the opportunities linked to the development of digital economy.
Q51|Hybrid choice models vs. endogeneity of indicator variables: a Monte Carlo investigation|We investigate the problem of endogeneity in the context of hybrid choice (integrated choice and latent variable) models. We first provide a thorough analysis of potential causes of endogeneity and propose a working taxonomy. We demonstrate that although it is widely believed that the hybrid choice framework is devoid of the endogeneity problem, there is no theoretical reason to expect that this is the case. We then demonstrate empirically that the problem exists in the hybrid choice framework too. By conducting a Monte Carlo experiment, we display the extent of the bias resulting from measurement and endogeneity biases. Finally, we propose two novel solutions to address the problem: by explicitly accounting for correlation between structural and discrete choice component error terms (or with random parameters in a utility function), or by introducing additional latent variables. Using simulated data, we demonstrate that these approaches work as expected, that is, they result in unbiased estimates of all model parameters.
Q51|A Monte Carlo investigation of the effects of spatial heterogeneity of preferences for discrete choice models|There are reasons researchers may be interested in accounting for spatial heterogeneity of preferences, including avoiding model misspecification and the resulting bias, and deriving spatial maps of willingness-to-pay (WTP), which are relevant for policy-making and environmental management. We employ a Monte Carlo simulation of three econometric approaches to parametrically account for spatial auto-correlation in discrete choice models. The first is based on the analysis of individual-specific estimates of the mixed logit model. The second extends this model to explicitly account for spatial correlation, instead of simply conditioning individual-specific estimates on population-level distributions and individuals’ choices. The third is the geographically weighted multinomial logit model, which incorporates spatial dimensions using geographical weights to estimate location-specific choice models. We analyze the performance of these methods in recovering population-, region- and individual-level preference parameter estimates and implied WTP in the case of spatial autocorrelation. We find that, although ignoring spatial autocorrelation did not significantly bias population-level results of the simple mixed logit model, neither individual-specific estimates nor the geographically weighted multinomial logit model was able to reliably recover the true region- and individual-specific parameters. We show that the spatially-autocorrelated mixed logit proposed in this study is promising and outline possibilities for future development.
Q51|Benefit Transfer and Commodity Measurement Scales: Consequences for Validity and Reliability|Non-market goods can be measured on cardinal or relative scales. Consider a marsh of two hundred acres, of which twenty acres would be affected by a policy. The same affected area can be measured in cardinal terms (twenty acres) or as a relative proportion (ten percent of the marsh). This seemingly inconsequential transformation can have significant implications for benefit transfer across sites—a simple observation that remains unacknowledged by the literature. This article provides the first theoretical and empirical evaluation of variable measurement conventions within benefit transfer, deriving conditions under which different types of measurement scales are expected to enhance validity and reliability. Theoretical results are illustrated using an application of discrete choice experiments to coastal flood adaptation in two Connecticut (USA) communities. Empirical findings validate expectations from the theoretical model, with both suggesting that transfers over goods measured in relative units may substantially outperform transfers over goods measured in cardinal units.
Q51|The Introduction of Wind Power Generation in a Local Community: An Economic Analysis of Subjective Well-Being Data in Choshi City|In this study, we analyze the external effects of wind turbines, which are often considered detrimental to the promotion of wind power generation. Understanding these externalities is essential for reaching a consensus with residents who live near the planned site of a wind turbine. We conducted a mail survey in Choshi City in Chiba Prefecture to examine the external effects of wind turbines, adopting a subjective well-being index to measure respondents f well-being. Regression analysis suggests that a view of wind power turbines has a positive effect on the subjective well-being of local residents. Moreover, results indicate that such well-being increases with increasing distance from wind turbines. In other words, except for scenic elements, we found that wind turbines are not always considered desirable by residents. As such, it is important to further clarify the external influence of wind turbines as well as other facilities in the neighborhood.
Q51|The Simple Arithmetic of Carbon Pricing and Stranded Assets|A simple rule for the optimal global price of carbon is presented, which captures the geo-physical, economic, and ethical drivers of climate policy as well as the effect of uncertainty about future growth of consumption. There is also a discussion of the optimal carbon budget and the amount of unburnable carbon and stranded fossil fuel reserves and a back-on-the-envelope expression are given for calculating these. It is also shown how one can derive the end of the carbon era and peak warming. This simple arithmetic for determining climate policy is meant to complement the simulations of large-scale integrated assessment model, and to give analytical understanding of the key determinants of climate policy. The simple rules perform very well in a full integrated assessment model. It is also shown how to take account of a 2°C upper limit on global warming. Steady increases in energy efficiency do not affect the optimal price of carbon, but postpones the carbon-free era somewhat and if technical progress in renewables and economic growth are strong leads to substantially lower cumulative emissions and lower peak global warming.
Q51|The agnostic's response to climate deniers: Price carbon!|With the election of President Trump, climate deniers feel emboldened and moved from the fringes to the centre of global policy making. We study how an agnostic approach to policy, based on Pascal's wager and allowing for subjective prior probability beliefs about whether climate deniers are right, prices carbon. Using the DICE integrated assessment model, we find that assigning a 10% chance of climate deniers being correct lowers the global price on carbon in 2020 only marginally: from $21 to $19 per ton of carbon dioxide if policymakers apply ‘Nordhaus discounting’ and from $91 to $84 per ton of carbon dioxide if they apply ‘Stern discounting’. Agnostics’ reflection of remaining scientific uncertainty leaves climate policy essentially unchanged. The robustness of an ambitious climate policy also follows from using the max-min or the min-max regret principle. Letting the coefficient of relative ambiguity aversion vary from zero, corresponding to expected utility analysis, to infinity, corresponding to the max-min principle, we show how policy makers deal with fundamental climate model uncertainty if they are prepared to assign prior probabilities to different views of the world being correct. Allowing for an ethical discount rate and a higher market discount rate and for a wide range of sensitivity exercises including damage uncertainty, we show that pricing carbon is the robust response under rising climate scepticism.
Q51|The Demand for Global and Local Environmental Protection - Experimental Evidence from Climate Change Mitigation in Beijing|In this study, the real demand for global and local environmental protection in Beijing, China, is elicited and investigated. Participants from Beijing were offered the opportunity to contribute to voluntary climate change mitigation by purchasing permits from two Chinese CO2 emissions trading schemes (ETS). Purchased permits were withdrawn from the ETS. Since CO2 emissions mitigation is inevitably linked to other local benefits like the reduction in emissions of air pollutants, the aim of our study is to establish the demand for local and global environmental protection. To this end, Beijing and Shenzhen ETS permits were offered. The result is that at low prices the demand for Beijing ETS permits is significantly higher than for Shenzhen ETS permits indicating that a substantial part of the revealed demand for voluntary climate change mitigation in Beijing is driven by concerns for local co-benefits of CO2 emissions reduction. Our research identifies the important role of private benefits in the voluntary provision of the global public good climate change mitigation and provides first experimental evidence for China.
Q51|Smog, Cognition and Real-World Decision Making|Cognitive functioning is critical as in our daily life a host of real-world complex decisions in high-stakes markets have to be made. The decision-making process can be vulnerable to environmental stressors. Summarizing the growing economic and epidemiologic evidence linking air pollution, cognition performance and real-world decision making, we first illustrate key physiological and psychological pathways between air pollution and cognition. We then document the main patterns of air pollution affecting cognitive test performance by type of cognitive tests, gender, window of exposure, age profile, and educational attainment. We further extend to a review of real-world decision making that has been found to be affected by air pollution and the resulting cognitive impairments. Finally, rich implications on environmental health policies are drawn based on existing evaluations of social costs of air pollution.
Q51|WeChat - using social media for the assessment of tourist preferences for environmental improvements in China|Environmental valuation studies with tourists have been very popular already over a long period of time. Tourists are an important stakeholder group with respect to the decision if some environmental project in a tourist region should be realized or not. Typically such studies are organized as face-to-face surveys conducted in the respective vacation areas. Tourists are asked their willingness to pay (e.g. in terms of higher entrance fees for certain amenities on site or a mark-up on accommodation prices etc.) for the implementation of an environmental project or preservation measure in that area. Based on theoretical considerations we argue that in the special case of tourist surveys internet-based surveys are preferable to face-to-face surveys under validity aspects as well as under the aspect of the representativeness of the survey results. Based on an empirical valuation study we conducted in Southwest China we illustrate the practical problems arising in the context of internet surveys in developing or threshold countries.
Q51|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
Q51|Valuing Non-Fatal Health Risks: Monetary and Health-Utility Measures|Metrics for valuing environmental, health, and safety policies should be consistent with both the preferences of affected individuals and social preferences for distribution of health risks in the population.?Two classes of metrics are widely used: monetary measures (e.g., willingness to pay) and health-utility measures (e.g., quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)), both of which are summed across the population.?Health-utility measures impose more structure than monetary measures, with the result that individuals? preferences often appear inconsistent with these measures; for the same reason, health-utility measures help protect against cognitive errors and other sources of incoherence in valuation.?This paper presents theoretical and empirical evidence comparing these metrics and examining how they co-vary. JEL Codes: D6, I1, Q51.
Q51|How Valuable are National Parks? Evidence from a Proposed National Park Expansion in Alaska|We estimate the national average passive use value for Alaskan National Parks. Passive use refers to the value that individuals get from the existence of a public good without actually using it. We fi eld a questionnaire asking respondents, using the contingent valuation method, how much they would pay for a 5% expansion of Denali National Park. We fi nd that respondents are willing to pay $115 to $409 for this expansion, according our preferred speci cations. Respondents answers to questions about what motivated their support and questions about their connections to Alaska indicate that support for the expansion is driven by passive use values.
Q51|Framing individual choice behaviour in uncertain environmental settings: An analysis of tourist preferences in the face of global warming|Unlike current stated preference studies, this paper examines the existence of framing effects from varying information about the environmental features characterizing the decision-making context where respondents are asked to state their preferences. Thus, it adds to the existing literature on framing effects which has usually been focused on analysing the welfare impacts derived from changing information relating to substitute goods and individuals’ budget constraint, the attributes defining the good to be valued and the complexity of the choice task. In particular, and through a novel choice experiment design, the paper investigates the impacts on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) from varying information about the degree of uncertainty over an expected global warming-derived increase in the temperature of a traditional summer holiday destination. Results show that the WTP increases with the magnitude of the expected temperature change and its associated probability of occurrence. Thus, they evidence that the degree of uncertainty over an expected environmental phenomenon can affect preferences for policies aimed at adapting to the environmental conditions resulting from such phenomenon. The implications of the results for decision-making in traditional sun and beach tourism destinations are also discussed.
Q51|The Value of Brownfield Remediation|The US Environmental Protection Agency Brownfields Program awards grants to redevelop contaminated lands known as brownfields. This paper estimates cleanup benefits by combining administrative records for a nationally representative sample of brownfields with high-resolution, high-frequency housing data. With cleanup, we find that property values increase by an average of 5.0% to 11.5%. For a welfare interpretation that does not rely on the intertemporal stability of the hedonic price function, a double-difference matching estimator finds even larger effects of up to 15.2%. Our various specifications lead to the consistent conclusion that Brownfields Program cleanups yield positive, statistically significant, but highly localized effects on housing prices.
Q51|The Implicit Price of Aquatic Grasses|Submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) in the Chesapeake Bay is well below half of its historic levels, largely due to excessive nutrient and sediment loads degrading water quality. SAV provides important ecosystem functions, many of which are beneficial to local residents. To understand the implicit value residents place on SAV and the ecosystem services it provides, we undertake a hedonic property value study using residential transactions in 11 Maryland counties adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay. These data are matched to high-resolution maps of SAV coverage. We pose a quasi-experimental comparison and examine how the prices of homes near the waterfront vary with the presence of SAV. On average, waterfront and near-waterfront homes within 200 meters of the shore sell at about a 6.5% premium when SAV is present. Applying these estimates to the 185,000-acre SAV attainment goal suggests total property value gains on the order of $436 million.
Q51|Analisi socio-economica del territorio lucano in vent'anni di estrazione petrolifera: vantaggi e svantaggi|The study aims to examine the advantages and disadvantages of the petroleum extraction in Basilicata, as well as to analyze its impact on economy, environment and public health. The introductory part provides a brief overview of the theories of global and local sustainable development, with special attention given to the area of Val dâ€™Agri in Basilicata. The study then proceeds to examine various memoranda of understanding signed between the Region of Basilicata and the petroleum companies in question, in order to highlight which of the points included in these agreements have effectively been respected after twenty years of petroleum extraction. The research further focuses on the socio-economic impact of the extractive industry on the local resources from the 1990â€™s until today. It evaluates the damages caused by petroleum extraction to the environment, economy and public health, which have recently brought about a temporary closure of the extraction facilities. The research leads to the conclusion that the extractive industry has in fact weakened the local production systems and, as a consequence, led to a decrease in new investments in the area of Val dâ€™Agri and in the entire region, despite a threefold increase of the share of royalty payments in the local budget. It can be stated with certainty that the exploitation of the petroleum resources in Val dâ€™Agri, which had initially been perceived as a springboard for economic development of the entire region, has eventually proved to be the cause of an impoverishment of the area, having a negative impact on the food supply chain and impeding the development of tourism.
Q51|Improving Drinking Quality in South Korea: A Choice Experiment|Increased pollution leads to a constant decrease of drinking water quality worldwide. Due to safety concerns, unpleasant taste and odour only about 3% of the population in South Korea is drinking untreated tap water. The present study uses choice experiments and cost-benefit analysis to investigate the feasibility of installing advanced water treatments in Cheongju waterworks in South Korea. The waterworks is situated in the middle of the country and is providing more than half a million people with drinking water. The study shows that the lower bound of the median WTP for installing a new advanced water treatment system is about $2 US/month, which is similar to the average expenditures for bottled water per household in South Korea. Scenarios under which the instalment of the advanced water treatments is feasible are discussed together with environmental solutions in the long-run.
Q51|Valuing Public Goods, the Time to Capitalization, and Network Externalities: A Spatial Hedonic Regression Analysis|Valuation studies of public goods, such as a bike trail, typically fail to consider the time to capitalization. Expanding upon previous hedonic housing models, we show that the years since development of the good is an important factor in estimating its value. Using spatial analysis for housing in Bloomington, Illinois, We find the development of a bike trail has an initial negative impact on prices, but over time the value of the trail turns positive, suggesting network effects and information costs impact valuation estimates. Additional analysis finds that networked trail access has a greater impact than nonnetworked trail access.
Q51|Spatial Valuation of Forests’ Environmental Assets: An Application to Andalusian Silvopastoral Farms|We develop a model that estimates spatially allocated environmental asset values for the simultaneous provision of seven ecosystem services. We examine the effect of heterogeneous spatial and economic factors on asset figures, and identify potential forestry abandonment problems when continuing with forestry activity becomes unprofitable for the landowner. Our results show a relevant spatial variability according to forest species distribution and structure. We examine potential trade-offs among silvopastoral provisioning services, water, and carbon sequestration services. Results forecast the abandonment of forestry activity and quantify the significant impact of discount rates and prices on asset values.
Q51|Endogenous Consequentiality in Stated Preference Referendum Data: The Influence of the Randomly Assigned Tax Amount|Recent empirical and theoretical research stresses it is important for survey respondents to believe that survey votes are consequential, meaning their votes can potentially influence whether a proposed policy is undertaken. We test the effect of a randomly assigned referendum tax on consequentiality, using a survey about water conservation in western North Carolina. We find that consequentiality is endogenous to hypothetical referendum responses. Specifically, as the assigned tax amount increases, respondents are less likely to find the survey consequential. As in related studies, respondents who self-report they perceive the survey to be consequential have a higher willingness to pay.
Q51|Convergent Validity and the Time Consistency of Preferences: Evidence from the Iowa Lakes Recreation Demand Project|We examine the consistency of preferences over time and as implied by revealed versus stated preference (contingent behavior) data. Studies in this area are typically based upon a single site and focus on consumer response to changes in travel cost or site access. We use data from the Iowa Lakes Project, which provides information on usage patterns over several years and for 132 lakes, along with detailed water quality data. This allows us to test for convergence in how individuals respond to changing site characteristics, as well as the consistency of preferences over time and between actual versus contingent trips.
Q51|Two-Stage Estimation to Control for Unobservables in a Recreation Demand Model with Unvisited Sites|The role of unobserved site attributes is a growing concern in recreation demand modeling. One solution in random utility models (RUMs) involves separating estimation into two stages, where the RUM is estimated with alternative specific constants (ASCs) in the first stage, and the estimated ASCs are regressed on the observed site attributes in the second stage. Prior work estimates the second stage with ordinary least squares (OLS) and two-stage least squares regression. We present an application with censored regression in the second stage. We show OLS produces inconsistent parameters when there are unvisited sites with no estimable ASCs and that censored regression avoids this problem.
Q51|A replication of Pindyck’s willingness to pay: on the sacrifice needed to obtain results|We present a verification, an extension and a reanalysis of “Uncertain outcomes and climate change policy”, R. Pindyck, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 2012. As far as verification is concerned, we are able to reproduce the results provided in Pindyck’s work in many cases and convincingly confirm the quality of the work. Some discrepancies are present, they are due to rounding or related to specific sets of parametric values and do not change the economic interpretation or significance of the results. The re-estimation of the model with more recent data on climate change made available in 2014 shows that temperature increments are now deemed to be higher in mean but less dispersed. As a consequence, the willingness to pay doesn’t vary much with respect to the original paper. We also modify the functional form describing the impact of temperature increase on the growth rate of consumption and obtain much bigger and potentially problematic increments of the willingness to pay. Finally, the paper demonstrates that the numerical results are sensitive to a variety of technical settings used in the computations and suggests that great care is needed in obtaining estimates and employing results in policy discussions.
Q51|Stated Preference Valuation Methods: An Evolving Tool for Understanding Choices and Informing Policy|We examine the value of Stated Preference (SP) valuation methods as part of the environmental economist’s toolbox.We review a number of policy design issues where we believe SP methods have advantages over alternative approaches. We also discuss the role of SP methods in exploring aspects of peoples’ preferences and values which have wider implications for economics and behavioral sciences: (a) the effects of information, learning and knowledge; (b) testing the standard model of compensatory, rational choice; (c) the influence of behavioural levers such as social norms; and (d) the role of “deep” drivers of preference heterogeneity, such as personality and emotions. We also review what is known about the extent to which hypothetical choices reveal something about people’s true preferences. Finally, we speculate on some areas where SP methods may be useful in the future.
Q51|Stated Preferences for Conservation Policies under Uncertainty: Insights on Individuals’ Risk Attitudes in the Environmental Domain|The outcome of a conservation policy is often subject to uncertainty. In stated preference valuation, there is increasing recognition that uncertainty affects preferences for environmental policies. However, there is also poor understanding regarding people’s perception of uncertainty per se and risk attitude. To shed more light on this , we designed a discrete choice experiment and compared preferences for environmental outcomes under climate change across two split samples, each confronted with a scenario where environmental outcomes are presented as either certain or uncertain (i.e. probabilistically) but displaying the same expected results. We fi nd that, for an equal expected outcome, preferences vary between the certain and the uncertain treatment. These results indicate that risk attitudes impact stated preferences for conservation policies under uncertainty and reinforce the idea that uncertainty should be included in stated preference studies to provide more accurate and policy relevant results . Interestingly, we additionally find that risk attitudes appear to be both context- and individual-specific– the effect of uncertainty depends on the magnitude and direction of change of the environmental good and on individual’s socio-demographic characteristics.
Q51|Are Bilateral Conservation Policies for the Białowieża Forest Unattainable? Analysis of Stated Preferences of Polish and Belarusian Public|Transboundary nature protected areas constitute a considerable proportion of all the existing spatial forms of biodiversity protection. There is a considerable literature on allocation of funds to preserving nature shared by several countries, though less research on the economic benefits that citizens attach to protected transboundary land nature on the other side of the border. We are trying to find out and compare preferences towards increased protection of domestic and foreign segments of the Białowieża Forest, stated by samples of Polish and Belarusian citizens. Whilst Poles on average are willing to pay for an increased passive protection, on their side of the border, most Belarusians seem to be satisfied with the status quo. There is even an apparent mutual disutility derived from the perspective of co-financing bilateral passive protection programmes in the Białowieża Forest. The results can to some extent be explained by a strict border division, by differences in welfare or by behavioural reasons.
Q51|Is Forest Landscape Restoration Socially Desirable? A Discrete Choice Experiment Applied to the Scandinavian Transboundary Fulufjället National Park Area|Landscape restoration can improve functionality of land cover patches as green infrastructure, which is essential to ensure the provision of a diverse range of ecosystem services. However, so far designation of protected areas in Fennoscandia has focused primarily on remnant patches of naturally dynamic forests, and not on landscape level restoration. We applied stated preference methodology to assess citizens’ preferences for forest landscape restoration in a cross-border region primarily managed for the industrial forestry, and – at the same time – hosting the transboundary Fulufjället National Park, shared between Sweden and Norway. There is scope for improving green infrastructure functionality by landscape restoration in adjacent forest areas, and including them into the National Park, which aims at gradual restoration of natural processes. In both countries, 54% and 55% choices made, respectively, indicated willingness to pay for extending the National Park by some area of forest landscape restoration.
Q51|Personality and economic choices|There is substantial variation in individual preferences for public goods, yet much of that variation remains poorly understood. However, simple measures of personality can help to explain economic values and choices in a systematic way. In this paper, we examine the effects of personality on individual economic choices over public environmental goods. Based on three datasets from three separate stated preference studies, we use a hybrid choice econometric framework to examine the effects of personality on preferences for the status quo, changes in environmental quality, and costs of investing in environmental improvements. We find effects that are consistent across all datasets. Personality, a stable feature of an individual's character that is simple to measure, enriches explanations of why the demand for environmental goods varies across people, provides an indication of how different people are likely to react to the introduction of environmental policies, and explains substantial differences in Willingness to Pay.
Q51|Weather, Climate and the Economy: Welfare Implications of Temperature Shocks|This paper examines the effects of weather shocks and climate change in the economy when rising temperatures independently affect household preferences and production technology. Direct temperature damages to the agent's preferences amplify the negative economic and welfare effects of temporary and permanent temperature increases. In our model, households value nature and dislike energy use in production. Temperature anomalies increase the disutility of energy use leading agents to reduce its use more dramatically when temperature increases. The short-run response of welfare to an unanticipated change in temperature is remarkably different when temperature directly affects preferences - welfare rises initially and then decreases as it returns to its steady state along with the temperature anomaly. Results of our analysis suggest that the consumption equivalent welfare for a 2.0C permanent increase in temperature is approximately 3 percent of GDP.
Q51|Economic Growth, Income Distribution, and Climate Change|We present a model based on Keynesian aggregate demand and labor productivity growth to study how climate damage affects the long-run evolution of the economy. Climate change induced by greenhouse gas lowers profitability, reducing investment and cutting output in the short and long runs. Short-run employment falls due to deficient demand. In the long run productivity growth is slower, lowering potential income levels. Climate policy can increase incomes and employment in the short and long runs while a continuation of business-as-usual leads to a dystopian income distribution with affluence for few and high levels of unemployment for the rest.
Q51|Can clean air make you happy? Examining the effect of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) on life satisfaction|In order to estimate the welfare effects of exposure to nitrogen dioxide (NO2), we combine life satisfaction data from the British Household Panel Survey (BHPS) and UK Household Longitudinal Survey (UKHLS) with detailed air quality records held by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). To address endogeneity concerns, we linked these with a variety of georeferenced datasets capturing differences in economic, social and environmental conditions across neighbourhoods. We also took advantage of the panel nature of our data by employing individual fixed effects. Our results suggest a significant and negative association between mean annual ambient NO2 and life satisfaction, and moreover that these effects are substantive and comparable to that of many â€™big hittingâ€™ life events.
Q51|The Externalities of a Deforestation Control Policy in Infant Health: Evidence from Brazil|The burning of forest releases a wide range of contaminants, some of which are known to be hazardous for health. Traditional estimates of the costs of deforestation rarely incorporate the health effects of pollution generated by deforestation. This paper provides the first estimates of the local externalities of deforestation in infant health. Our approach exploits a conservation policy that generated a sharp drop in deforestation across municipalities in the Brazilian Amazon. The core findings are that deforestation control policy led to reductions in the incidence of very low birth weight and extreme prematurity, especially for boys. Collectively, these findings provide additional justification for controlling deforestation.
Q51|Income inequality and the international transfer of environmental values|How the valuation of environmental goods is related to income is a key question for economics, but the role of income inequality is often neglected. We study how income inequality affects the international transfer of the estimated value of environmental goods from a study to a policy site - a practice called value or benefit transfer. Specifically, we apply theory-driven, structural transfer factors to examine whether adjusting for income inequality affects errors made in benefit transfer, drawing on a multi-country valuation study on water quality improvement. Our convergent validity analysis shows that the structural income inequality adjustment reduces benefit transfer errors by more than 1.5 percentage points on average across all transfers. The adjustment for inequality is particularly important when income is distributed more unequally at the policy site relative to the study site, yielding reductions in transfer errors of up to 33 percentage points. Our results highlight the importance of taking the effects of economic inequality into account and are relevant for environmental valuation as well as public policy appraisal.
Q51|Economic inequality and the value of nature|Understanding what influences the value of nature is crucial for informing environmental policy. From a sustainability perspective, economic valuation should not only seek to determine willingness to pay for environmental goods to devise an efficient allocation of scarce resources, but should also account for distributional effects to ensure justice. Yet, how economic inequality affects the value of non-market environmental goods remains understudied. Combining recently developed theoretical results with empirical evidence we show that more equal societies have a higher valuation for environmental public goods and that non-market benefits of environmental policy accrue over-proportionally to poorer households. On this ground, we identify a number of fruitful areas for future research and discuss implications for environmental valuation, management and policy-making. We conclude that environmental valuation should explicitly account for economic inequality, and that encompassing assessments of the distributional effects of environmental policies must consider the distribution of non-market environmental benefits.
Q51|Free riding and rebates for residential energy efficiency upgrades: A multi-country contingent valuation experiment|The cost-effectiveness of energy technology upgrade programs critically depends on free riding. This paper assesses ex ante the effects of free riding on the cost-effectiveness of a rebate program that promotes the adoption of energy-efficient heating systems, relying on contingent valuation choice experiments carried out through identical representative surveys in eight EU Members States. The analysis distinguishes between strong and weak free riders: strong free riders already plan to adopt a new heating system in the next five years; weak free riders decide to purchase once propositioned with an attractive technology package (and therefore do not require a rebate to adopt). The reservation rebates for incentivized adopters (those who decide to adopt because of a rebate) differ substantially across countries. On average, they amount to approximately 40% of the heating system's purchasing price, suggesting generally high opportunity costs for premature upgrades. The reservation rebate and weak free-ridership vary with income, risk and time preferences, and environmental identity. At a rebate level that corresponds to half the purchase price of the offered heating system, the estimated share of free riders exceeded 50% for most countries, with a typically higher share of weak free riders than strong free riders. Specific rebate cost estimates (in €/tCO2) differ considerably across countries, suggesting that cooperation can yield budgetary benefits.
Q51|Smog in Our Brains: Gender Differences in the Impact of Exposure to Air Pollution on Cognitive Performance|While there is a large body of literature on the negative health effects of air pollution, there is much less written about its effects on cognitive performance for the whole population. This paper studies the effects of contemporaneous and cumulative exposure to air pollution on cognitive performance based on a nationally representative survey in China. By merging a longitudinal sample at the individual level with local air-quality data according to the exact dates and counties of interviews, we find that contemporaneous and cumulative exposure to air pollution impedes both verbal and math scores of survey subjects. Interestingly, the negative effect is stronger for men than for women. Specifically, the gender difference is more salient among the old and less educated in both verbal and math tests.
Q51|Happiness in the air: How does a dirty sky affect mental health and subjective well-being?|Previous studies evaluating the welfare cost of air pollution have not paid much attention to its potential effect on mental health and subjective well-being (SWB). This paper attempts to fill the gap by investigating the impact of air pollution on several key dimensions, including mental health status, depressive symptoms, moment-to-moment happiness, and evaluative happiness. We match a nationwide longitudinal survey in China with local air quality and rich weather conditions according to the exact time and place of survey. By making use of variations in exposure to air pollution for the same individuals over time, we show that air pollution reduces hedonic happiness and increases the rate of depressive symptoms, while life satisfaction has little to do with the immediate air quality. Our results shed light on air pollution as an important contributor to the Easterlin paradox that economic growth may not bring more happiness.
Q51|Labour as a utility measure reconsidered|In Stated Preference studies for the appraisal of environmental projects in poor countries or regions it often turns out that the stated willingness to pay of people for environmental improvements, which is used as measure of individual welfare changes, is very low. This is often interpreted as the result of extremely tight budget constraints, which make it impossible that people express their true appreciation of an environmental project in terms of their willingness to pay for it. Therefore, it is sometimes suggested to use labour contributions instead of money as a numeraire to measure utility in such studies. In this paper we show theoretically and empirically that this suggestion is not compatible with the principles of welfare theory because of several inconsistencies. We also illustrate the validity of our arguments empirically based on the results of a Contingent Valuation study conducted in a rural area in northern Vietnam.
Q51|"A replication of willingness-to-pay estimates in ""An adding up test on contingent valuations of river and lake quality"" (Land Economics, 2015)"|Desvousges, Mathews and Train (2015) find that their contingent valuation method (CVM) survey data does not pass the adding up test using a nonparametric estimate of mean willingness-to-pay. Their data suffers from non-monotocity, flat bid curve and fat tails problems, each of which can cause willingness-to-pay estimates to be sensitive to the approach chosen to measure the central tendency. Using additional parametric approaches that are standard in the literature, I find that willingness to pay for the whole is not statistically different from the sum of the parts in two of three additional estimates. In additional robustness checks, all six of the additional tests find that the WTP estimates do not reject the adding up hypothesis. The negative result in Desvousges, Mathews and Train (2015) is not robust to these alternative approaches to willingness-to-pay estimation.
Q51|Carbon emission effect of urbanization at regional level: Empirical evidence from China|Historically, global urbanization has been an essential ingredient for national economic growth and beneficial social transformation. However, with the global urban population currently generating two-thirds of all carbon emissions, global policymakers are urging mayors and regional leaders to make difficult decisions to reduce the negative impacts of urbanization on the environment. The authors begin their examination of the implications of local and regional factors by applying the Dynamic Spatial Durbin Panel Model to empirically examine aspects of developing low-carbon strategies for the rapidly expanding size and number of the world's urban areas. Their results indicate that the contribution of urbanization to carbon emissions can be positively affected when regional policy makers collaborate to focus on spillover effects to simultaneously manage the scope, diversity, and complexity of economic and environmental issues from the perspective of creating a balance between rapid urbanization and relevant regional factors. Regional leaders can make a difference by creating both short-term goals and long-term strategies for maintaining low-carbon urbanization, nurturing regional coordination, monitoring and managing eco-friendly regional spillover effects, supporting low-carbon technology innovations, and maintaining optimal city size.
Q51|Bolivia’s Green National Accounts through a Commodity Super Cycle|This paper explains the concept of integrated environmental-economic accounts, also called Green National Accounts. It then presents updated results for key indicators from Bolivia’s Green National Accounts during the period 1990-2015, which covers an entire Commodity Super Cycle. The first half of this period includes the Great Commodities Depression while the second half is characterized by an unprecedented commodities boom. Results show that the contribution of ecosystem goods and services to the Bolivian economy remain relatively stable over the cycle, while the contribution of non-renewable resources increases by a factor of four between the bottom of the cycle (1993) and the top of the cycle (2011). Similarly, the differences between conventional Net Capital Formation and Environmentally-adjusted Net Capital formation is small at the bottom of the Commodity Super Cycle (2.3% of GDP) but much larger at the top of the cycle (7.7% of GDP). These results were calculated following the United Nation’s SEEA 2003 framework.
Q51|A Ricardian analysis of the impact of climate change on Italian agriculture|This research investigates the potential impact of warming on Italian agriculture. Using a detailed dataset of 16,000 farms across Italy, the study examines likely warming impacts in different regions and for different sectors of Italian agriculture. The study finds that farm net revenues are very sensitive to seasonal changes in temperature and precipitation. Livestock and crop farms have different responses to climate as do rainfed farms and irrigated crop farms. The overall results suggest mild consequences from marginal changes in climate but increasingly harmful effects from more severe climate scenarios.
Q51|The benefits of avoiding cancer (or dying from cancer): Evidence from a four- country study|We use stated-preference methods to estimate the cancer Value per Statistical Life (VSL) and Value per Statistical Case (VSCC) from a representative sample of 45–60-year olds in four countries in Europe. We ask respondents to report information about their willingness to pay for health risk reductions that are different from those used in earlier valuation work because they are comprised of two probabilities—that of getting cancer, and that of dying from it (conditional on getting it in the first place). The product of these two probabilities is the unconditional cancer mortality risk. Our hypothetical risk reductions also include two severity-related attributes—quality-of-life impacts and pain. The results show that respondents did appear to have an intuitive grasp of compound probabilities, and took into account each component of the unconditional cancer mortality risk when answering the valuation questions. We estimate the cancer VSL to be between approximately € 2 and 5.950 million, depending on whether the (unconditional) mortality risk was reduced by lowering the chance of getting cancer, increasing the chance of surviving cancer, or both. The VSCC is estimated to be up to € 0.578 million euro, and its magnitude depends on the initial (conditional) cancer mortality and on the improvement in survival. The survey responses show that our measures of cancer severity—impacts on daily activities and pain—have little or no effect on the WTP to reduce the adverse health risks.
Q51|The economic value of ecosystem services from delisting impairments: A case study of Lake St. Joseph, Louisiana| Runoff from agricultural fields in Lake St. Joseph watershed caused sediment inflow into the lake resulting in the lake not meeting one of its designated uses, propagation of fish and wildlife. As a result, the lake was added to the state's year 2002 list of impaired waters for turbidity. Conservation agencies worked with local farmers to promote the implementation of Best Management Practices (BMPs) to decrease sediment runoff from crop fields within the watershed. In 2016, it was proposed that Lake St. Joseph be removed from the list of impaired waters. Such delisting is believed to provide a variety of benefits to people, often referred as ecosystem services. We measured the value of the ecosystem services provided by recreational activities, mainly fishing, using a meta-analysis based function transfer approach. The preliminary results show significant benefit in terms of fishing as a result of an increase in fish populations. Although ecosystem services are not exactly bought and sold in the market, their contribution to the local economy is significant, especially in Louisiana.
Q51|The effect of the number of alternatives in a choice experiment with an application to the Macquarie Marshes, AU|No abstract is available for this item.
Q51|Validity and Reliability of Contingent Valuation and Life Satisfaction Measures of Welfare: An Application to the Value of National Olympic Success|The contingent valuation method (CV) has long been used to estimate nonmarket values of environmental and other public goods and amenities. Recently, life satisfaction (LS) measures have been used to estimate nonmarket values. This paper empirically compares CV and LS measures of welfare. We elicit willingness-to-pay (WTP) estimates for medals won by Canadian athletes and LS measures using Canadian survey data collected before and after the 2010 Winter Olympic Games. These data permit comparative analyses of reliability and validity of CV and LS measures. Both exhibit econometric reliability. CV and LS WTP estimates for medals increases after the Olympics. CV measures of WTP exhibit temporal reliability but LS measures of welfare lack temporal reliability and are significantly greater than CV measures. Key Words: contingent valuation method; life satisfaction method; willingness-to-pay; validity reliability
Q51|Out of Sight, Not Out of Mind: Developments in Economic Models of Groundwater Management|Dynamic models of natural resource management have been applied to groundwater for decades, incorporating at least two inescapable aspects: first, since groundwater stocks are carried over to future periods, dynamic analysis is essential and any costs and benefits included in the analysis will require discounting; second, the positive and normative aspects of management must be clarified at the outset. The difference is fundamental even if the results of the two model types sometimes turn out to be fairly close. A whole strand of literature has been preoccupied with the question of whether policy interventions at least have the potential of improving groundwater management in a meaningful sense. However, given the well-documented parlous state of many aquifers around the world today, the focus has mostly shifted from debating whether or not intervention is worthwhile to identifying the relevant features of complex groundwater systems, designing better policies and facilitating their successful implementation. We survey developments in economic models relevant to groundwater management, focusing especially on the depiction of uncertainty and on the different methods applied to estimate the total economic value of groundwater.
Q51|A methodological note for the development of integrated aquaculture production models|Aquaculture production can yield significant economic, social and environmental effects. These exceed the financial costs and benefits aquaculture producers are faced with. We propose a methodology for the development of integrated production models that allow for the inclusion of the socio-economic and environmental effects of aquaculture into the production management. The methodology develops on a Social Cost-Benefit Analysis context and it includes three parts: i) environmental, that captures the interactions of aquaculture with the environment, ii) economic, that makes provision for the incorporation of economic determinants in the production models and iii) social, that introduces the social preferences to the production and management process. Alternatives to address data availability issues are also discussed. The methodology extends the assessment of the costs and benefits of aquaculture beyond pure financial metrics and beyond the quantification of private costs and benefits. It can also support the development of integrated models of aquaculture production that take into consideration both the private and the social costs and benefits associated with externalities and effects not appropriately captured by market mechanisms. The methodology can support aquaculture management and policies targeting sustainable and efficient aquaculture production and financing from an economic, financial, social and environmental point of view.
Q51|What future(s) for liberalized electricity markets: efficient, equitable or innovative?|Well-designed electricity liberalization has delivered effciency gains, but political risks of decarbonizing the sector have undermined investment incentives in en-ergy-only markets, while poorly designed regulated tariffs have increased the cost of accommodating renewables. The paper sets out principles from theory and public economics to guide market design, capacity remuneration, renewables support and regulatory tariff setting, with an illustration from a high capital cost low variable cost electricity system. Such characteristics are likely to become more prevalent with increasing renewables penetration, where poor regulation is already threatening current utility business models. The appendix develops and applies a method for determining the subsidy justifed by learning spillovers from solar PV.
Q51|The economics of air pollution from fossil fuels|The paper sets out the economic theory for addressing externalities such as air pollution from burning fossil fuels and from road transport, and for public bads such as greenhouse gases, taking as examples the Clean Air Act, 1956, progress in reducing emissions from power stations, and recent concerns over the number of premature deaths from the rapid growth in diesel cars. That damage can be costed at 15p/litre of diesel on average. The last part discusses the efficacy of taxes, quotas or standards and the EU ETS for mitigating climate damage.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q51|Utilities Included: Split Incentives in Commercial Electricity Contracts|This paper quantifies a tenant-side “split incentives” problem that exists when the largest commercial sector customers are on electricity-included property lease contracts causing them to face a marginal electricity price of zero. We use exogenous variation in weather shocks toshow that the largest firms on tenant-paid contracts use up to 14 percent less electricity in response to summer temperature fluctuations. The result is retrieved under weaker identifying assumptions than previous split incentives papers, and is robust when exposed to several opportunities to fail. The electricity reduction in response to temperature increases is likely to be a lower bound when generalized nationwide and suggests that policymakers should consider a sub-metering policy to expose the largest commercial tenants to the prevailing retail electricity price.
