Q54|The Shifting Seasonal Mean Autoregressive Model and Seasonality in the Central England Monthly Temperature Series, 1772-2016|In this paper we introduce an autoregressive model with seasonal dummy variables in which coefficients of seasonal dummies vary smoothly and deterministically over time. The error variance of the model is seasonally heteroskedastic and multiplicatively decomposed, the decomposition being similar to that in well known ARCH and GARCH models. This variance is also allowed to be smoothly and deterministically time-varying. Under regularity conditions, consistency and asymptotic normality of the maximum likelihood estimators of parameters of this model is proved. A test of constancy of the seasonal coefficients is derived. The test is generalised to specifying the parametric structure of the model. A test of constancy over time of the heteroskedastic error variance is presented. The purpose of building this model is to use it for describing changing seasonality in the well-known monthly central England temperature series. More specifically, the idea is to find out in which way and by how much the monthly temperatures are varying over time during the period of more than 240 years, if they do. Misspecification tests are applied to the estimated model and the findings discussed.
Q54|Natural disasters and mental health: A quantile approach|This article investigates heterogeneity in the effect of experiencing natural disasters on mental health. Using Australian longitudinal data, we find that home owners generally show a reduction in mental health score after a disaster. There is a strong negative effect in the lowest two quantiles of the distribution for non-owners.
Q54|Do you Feel the Heat Around the Corner? The Effect of Weather on Crime|In this paper, we study the weather-crime relationship using a unique high-frequency, city-level data set for the United States with 2.4 mio. observations. In contrast to the existing literature using (often) daily data, we match hourly observations of weather and crime. Our results show that using daily observations overestimates the effect of temperature and underestimates the effect of precipitation on crime and leads to different conclusions about the significance of variables. We document evidence for a non-linear relationship between weather variables and crime. Again, results differ greatly between daily and hourly observations.
Q54|Capital Accumulation, Green Paradox, and Stranded Assets: An Endogenous Growth Perspective|The existing studies on Green Paradox and stranded assets focus on dirty exhaustible assets (fossil fuel reserves) and show that environmental regulations, by changing the costs of dirty inputs relative to clean ones, lead to replacements of the former by the latter and stranding of dirty assets due to perfect substitution. It, in turn, induces acceleration of dirty resource extractions and pollution emissions for fear of dirty assets becoming stranded - the Green Paradox effect. This paper uses an endogenous growth framework to revisit the problem of Green Paradox and stranded assets by taking a new perspective that focuses on capital accumulation with investment irreversibility. We show that if 1) direct irreversibility of investment does not rule out the indirect channel of converting dirty capital goods into clean ones through final goods allocations, and 2) interactions between dirty and clean capital as imperfect substitutes can generate reciprocal effects, then environmental regulation, through directing investment towards clean capital, does not necessarily leads to asset stranding of dirty capital. Accumulation of clean capital with a pollution-saving effect offsets the polluting impact of dirty one and leads to reversed Green Paradox. We further propose an endogenous growth mechanism through which the accumulation of both dirty and clean capital, as well as environmental improvement, can be sustained in the long run without converging to the steady state.
Q54|Financial Transfers and Climate Cooperation|We investigate the impact of side-payments to countries that have a low net benefit from participating in efficient climate cooperation in a repeated games framework with investment in different technologies. We consider different timings of these payments and different degrees of commitment. If countries cannot commit ex ante to transfer funds to low-benefit participants to an agreement, then there is a trade-off. Investment based agreements, where transfers occur before emissions are realized, but after investments have been committed, maximize the scope of cooperation. Results-based agreements minimize transfers whenever these agreements implement cooperation. If countries can commit to transfer funds, then agreements in which countries with high benefits of climate cooperation pre-commit to results-based payments to countries with low benefits both maximize the scope of cooperation and minimize transfers.
Q54|Cows, cash and climate: Low stocking rates, high-performing cows, emissions and profitability across New Zealand farms|Using the New Zealand Monitor Farm Data (NZMFD), this paper explores the cost-effectiveness of two mitigation options to reduce biological greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on farms: reducing stocking rate (SR; the number of cows per effective hectare of dairy land); and increasing animal performance (AP; measured by production of milk solids (MS) per cow). These mitigation options have been defined as “no cost” because, if applied together, they could reduce the carbon footprint of farms while also maintaining or even improving profits (de Klein & Dynes, 2017). We evaluate the effect of these mitigation options on three main variables: milk profitability of the farm (cash operating surplus (COS)/ton of MS produced); emissions intensity (ton CO2eq/ton of MS produced); and the value of emissions (COS/ton CO2eq). The paper has two main findings: high-AP farms show significantly lower emissions intensities and higher milk profitability; and higher SRs on farms are significantly associated with lower emissions intensities while not being significantly associated with milk profitability or negatively associated with profit per hectare. These results imply that higher levels of AP reduce the GHG intensity of the farm and increase profit – a “no-cost” option – but unless either the SR or the area under dairy farming fall, an increase in AP will lead to an increase in absolute emissions. However, our results cast doubt on the idea that reducing SR is a no-cost way to achieve absolute emission reductions. The two options do seem to constitute a no-cost outcome when combined, but potentially the same mitigation could be achieved with lower loss of profit by reducing the area of dairy land while maintaining high SRs and increasing the performance of the animals.
Q54|Weather Shocks|How much do weather shocks matter? The literature addresses this question in two isolated ways: either by looking at long-term effects through the prism of theoretical models, or by focusing on short-term effects using empirical analysis. We propose a framework to bring together both the short and long-term effects through the lens of an estimated DSGE model with a weather-dependent agricultural sector. The model is estimated using Bayesian methods and quarterly data for New Zealand using the weather as an observable variable. In the short-run, our analysis underlines the key role of weather as a driver of business cycles over the sample period. An adverse weather shock generates a recession, boosts the non-agricultural sector and entails a domestic currency depreciation. Taking a long-term perspective, a welfare analysis reveals that weather shocks are not a free lunch: the welfare cost of weather is currently estimated at 0.19% of permanent consumption. Climate change critically increases the variability of key macroeconomic variables (such as GDP, agricultural output or the real exchange rate) resulting in a higher welfare cost peaking to 0.29% in the worst case scenario.
Q54|On the Evolution of U.S. Temperature Dynamics|Climate change is a multidimensional shift. While much research has documented rising mean temperature levels, we also examine range-based measures of daily temperature volatility. Specifically, using data for select U.S. cities over the past half-century, we compare the evolving time series dynamics of the average temperature level, AVG, and the diurnal temperature range, DTR (the difference between the daily maximum and minimum temperatures at a given location). We characterize trend and seasonality in these two series using linear models with time-varying coecients. These straightforward yet flexible approximations provide evidence of evolving DTR seasonality, stable AVG seasonality, and conditionally Gaussian but heteroskedastic innovations for both DTR and AVG.
Q54|Regional Climate Policy under Deep Uncertainty|We study climate change policies by using the novel pattern scaling approach of regional transient climate response to develop an economyclimate model under conditions of deep uncertainty associated with: (i) temperature dynamics, (ii) regional climate change damages, and (iii) policy in the form of carbon taxes. We analyze both cooperative and noncooperative outcomes in a regional model. Under deep uncertainty, robust control policies are more conservative regarding emissions, the higher the aversion to ambiguity, while damage uncertainty seems to produce more conservative behavior than climate dynamics uncertainty. Cooperative policies tend to be more conservative than noncooperative policies for similar concerns about uncertainty but, as concerns about uncertainty increase, policies tend to move closer to each other. Asymmetries in concerns about uncertainty tend to produce large deviations in regional emissions policy at the noncooperative solution. If aversion to ambiguity is sufficiently high, optimal regulation aiming to attain a cooperative steady state or a steady state that satisfies conditions for a Nash equilibrium might not be possible. The result is associated with the existence of regional hot spots and temperature spillovers across regions, a situation which emerges in the real world. In such cases, deep uncertainty about the impacts of climate change makes robust regulation infeasible.
Q54|Regional Climate Policy under Deep Uncertainty: Robust Control, Hot Spots and Learning|We study climate change policies using the novel pattern scaling approach of regional transient climate response, to develop a regional economy-climate model under conditions of deep uncertainty associated with: (i) temperature dynamics, (ii) regional climate change damages, and (iii) policy in the form of carbon taxes. We analyze cooperative and noncooperative outcomes. Under deep uncertainty, robust control policies are more conservative regarding emissions, the higher the aversion to ambiguity is, while damage uncertainty seems to produce more conservative behavior than climate dynamics uncertainty. As concerns about uncertainty increase, cooperative and noncooperative policies tend to move close together. Asymmetries in concerns about uncertainty tend to produce large deviations in regional emissions policy at the noncooperative solution. We calculate the cost of robustness in terms of welfare. If aversion to ambiguity is suciently high, optimal regulation might not be possible. The result is associated with the existence of regional hot spots and temperature spillovers across regions, a situation which emerges in the real world. In such cases, deep uncertainty about the impacts of climate change makes robust regulation infeasible. We show that, if resources are devoted to learning, which reduces uncertainty concerns, robust regulation is facilitated.
Q54|DICE-RD: An Implementation of Rate-Related Damages in the DICE model|A growing body of literature from the natural and the social sciences indicates that the rate of temperature increase is another key driver of total climate damages, next to the absolute increase in temperature compared to the pre-industrial level. Nonetheless, the damage functions employed in integrated assessment models that aim at studying the economics of climate change are usually based on the absolute temperature increase alone. Hence, these models neglect additional damag-es that will occur if the rate of temperature increase exceeds a certain threshold that overstrains the adaptive capacities of ecological and social systems. In the present paper, we implement such rate-related damages in the well-known integrated assessment model DICE-2016R. Using the resulting model variant DICE-RD we show for several different scenarios that an insufficient climate policy that ignores rate-related damages can lead to substantial economic losses.
Q54|Innovación financiera para una economía sostenible|El cambio climático, su gestión y mitigación, constituye sin duda uno de los elementos de riesgo más importantes que afrontará nuestra sociedad en las próximas décadas. El sector financiero desempeña un papel fundamental en este reto, tanto por su exposición y las consiguientes implicaciones patrimoniales que pueden derivarse de la materialización de este riesgo como por su labor canalizando las inversiones necesarias para transformar nuestra economía en un modelo sostenible. En este artículo se revisan distintas iniciativas que están teniendo lugar en el sector financiero privado en el proceso de introducción de la variable «sostenibilidad» en la toma de decisiones, con el objetivo tanto de lograr un balance con una menor huella de carbono (transformación del stock) como de desarrollar una estrategia de negocio alineada con unos principios responsables acordes con los compromisos internacionales (transformación del flujo). Se analizan las innovaciones que están surgiendo en el camino hacia unas finanzas sostenibles en relación con 1) la aparición de nuevos proveedores y servicios en los mercados, 2) la creación de nuevos productos financieros con criterios de sostenibilidad, 3) la adaptación de la política de gestión de riesgos financieros, y 4) las interacciones entre los avances tecnológicos y el cambio climático.
Q54|Les groupes bancaires français face au risque climatique|Comment les banques françaises se préparent-elles au changement climatique et où en sont-elles dans la mise en œuvre des dispositions de l’article 173 de la loi sur la transition énergétique pour la croissance verte ? Afin de répondre à ces questions, l’ACPR a interrogé les principaux groupes bancaires français via un questionnaire, envoyé au cours de l’été 2018, et des entretiens bilatéraux, organisés de septembre à novembre. L’objectif était de dresser un bilan des évolutions constatées depuis la publication d’un rapport au Gouvernement, en mars 2017, consacré aux risques financiers liés au changement climatique auxquels le secteur bancaire est exposé. Ce numéro d’Analyses et synthèses en présente les principaux résultats en termes de gouvernance et d’analyse des risques climatiques. Cet article conclut par un certain nombre de recommandations à l’attention des régulateurs et des superviseurs d’une part, des établissements bancaires d’autre part, afin d’encourager la diffusion des bonnes pratiques et de favoriser une meilleure prise en compte du risque climatique.
Q54|Global unanimity agreement on the carbon budget|Carbon budgets are a useful way to frame the climate mitigation challenge and much easier to agree upon than the allocation of emissions. We propose a mechanism with countries agreeing on the global carbon budget, while the decision to emit is decentralized at the country level. The revenue is collected in a global fund and allocated according to endogenously defined weights proportional to the marginal cost of climate change. The proposal features a unanimous agreement of the national citizenries of the world and global Pareto efficiency. We run a simulation in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, with zero emissions after 2055. At the Global Unanimity Equilibrium, permits are priced at 90$/tC, yielding 1.3 trillion dollars annually. Africa, India and the less developed countries in Asia are the only net recipients, while the US and China are the largest net contributors.
Q54|A disaster under-(re)insurance puzzle: Home bias in disaster risk-bearing|The losses from the 2011 earthquakes in Japan remained in Japan, while reinsurance spread the losses from that year’s New Zealand earthquake to the rest of the world.This paper finds that the Japanese case is more typical: losses from natural disasters are shared internationally to a generally very limited extent. This finding of home bias in disaster risk-bearing poses a puzzle of international risk-sharing. We decompose international risk-sharing into the portion of losses insured and the portion ofinsurance that is internationally re-insured. We find that the failure of international risk-sharing begins at home with low participation in insurance. Regression analysis points to economic development and institutional/legal quality as important determinants of insurance participation. We propose a new method to measure international reinsurance payments with balance of payments data. This method identifies for the first time the cross-border flow of reinsurance payments to 88 economies that experienced insured disasters in the 1985–2017 period. Regression analysis of these data points to small size and de facto financial integration as positively related to the reinsurance share, as one might expect. However, we also find that more internationally wealthy economies reinsure less, suggesting that net foreign assets substitute for international sharing of disaster risk. For advanced economies, a lack of international risk-sharing is correlated with a lack of fiscal space. Thus, the governments under more pressure to provide ex post government insurance through the budget have less room to manoeuvre to do so. At high levels of public debt, a lack of ex ante insurance can turn disaster risk into financial risk.
Q54|Cost-environment efficiency analysis of construction industry in China: A materials balance approach|This study utilizes the data envelopment analysis technique with materials balance condition to evaluate the inherent trade-offs between environmental and cost outcomes among different types of energy consumptions in China¡¯s construction industry. Environmental and cost efficiency that is decomposed into technical efficiency and allocative efficiency are estimated, and the possible environmental impact and economic cost of reallocating energy inputs for improving efficiency are obtained. The estimation results show that: i) China¡¯s construction industry has the ability to produce its current level of industrial added value with fewer CO2 emissions and fewer energy input cost through removing technical inefficiency and adjusting energy consumption structure. ii) There are 31.9% and 6.1% reduction potentials on CO2 emissions if this industry attained the most environmentally efficient and the most costly efficient situation, respectively. iii) The average shadow cost of CO2 emissions reduction in this industry is very low, suggesting that it should control CO2 emissions through optimizing energy consumption structure and improving energy efficiency, instead of relying on end-of-pipe emission abatement technologies or emission trading systems.
Q54|Spatial heterogeneity and driving forces of environmental productivity growth in China: Would it help to switch pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes?|Emission charge policy has recently switched from pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes in China. Considering spatial heterogeneity, the effects of changes in emission charge policy may subject to different Chinese regions. In this study, environmental efficiencies of Chinese regions are evaluated through provincial environmentally extended input-output tables and a frontier-based optimization model. Driving factors of environmental productivity growth are identified through global Luenberger productivity decomposition approach. Moreover, spatial heterogeneity on the effects of change in emission charge policy on environment and economy are assessed. Results show that all regions experienced environmental productivity growth. Technology progress is the major driving factor in most regions with an average contribution of 90%, while technical efficiency regress slows environmental productivity growth in Southwest region. Switching from pollutant discharge fees to environmental taxes would decreases emission intensities by 1.42% on average, but it would have different negative impact on economic growth (-1.13%~-4.90% of regional GDP) due to spatially heterogeneous trade-offs between environmental protection and economic development. Addressing such spatial heterogeneity provide not only a basis for diversified tax rate determination but also a framework for other environmental policy assessment.
Q54|Sufficient or insufficient: Assessment on the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) of world¡¯s major emitters|"The recent conference of the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) resulted in the Intended National Determined Contributions (INDCs)by 190 countries. The aim of this article is to offer an analysis of the ambition and fairness of the mitigation components of the INDCs submitted by parties. We use a unified framework to assess the 23 INDCs covering 50 countries (EU 28 countries as a Party to the Convention), representing 87.45% of global greenhouse gas emissions in 2012. First, we transform initial INDC files into reported reduction target. Second, we create four schemes and six scenarios to find out required reduction effort, which takes nation¡¯s reduction responsibility, capacity and potential into consideration, reflecting historical and current development status of each nation. At last, we put reported reduction target and required reduction effort together to assess INDCs. In the evaluation of the 23emitters, two emitters (EU and Brazil) were rated as ""sufficient"". Seven emitters, such as China, the United States and Canada were rated as ""moderate"". Fourteen emitters, such as India, Russian and Japan were rated as ""insufficient"". Most pledges reveal a great distance from representing a fair contribution."
Q54|Green Bonds as an instrument to finance low carbon transition|The present paper examines the role that green bonds can play in financing the transition to low carbon economy. We first establish the need for central banks to respond to climate change challenges and we present the main ways in which they can get involved. We explain why green bonds should be used to instrument of choice for financing the low carbon transition, based, on the one hand, on the theoretical argument of intergenerational burden sharing and, on the other hand, on the practical need of large long-term infrastructure investments. After defining green bonds, we present their main characteristics. We then summarize the development of the green bond market in the last decade. We conclude by presenting ways in which to respond to existing challenges and barriers, so that the green bonds market develops further.
Q54|CO2-Steuer, Zertifikate-Handel und Innovationsförderung als Klimapolitik-Instrumente|Eine CO2-Steuer einzuführen für nicht vom CO2-Zertifkate-Handel erfasste Sektoren erscheint als ökonomisch-ökologisch vernünftig für Deutschland und andere OECDLänder. Die Steuer sollte weitgehend aufkommensneutral sein, könnte aber mit einem geringen Anteil zeitweise auch eine verstärkte emissionsmindernde Innovationsförderung finanzieren, die wiederum die ökonomischen Lasten von Zertifikatehandel und CO2-Steuer zu mindern hilft. Der Zertifikate-Handel ist grundsätzlich ökonomisch effizient, sofern man langfristig einen global einheitlichen Preis für Zertifikate erreicht – das ist angesichts der Zielmarke für eine weitgehende CO2-Neutralität des Wirtschaftens in der EU bis 2050 eine mittelfristig anzugehende Aufgabe, wobei zudem die CO2-Steuerhöhe nahe beim Zertifikatepreis liegen sollte. Hier gibt es eine wichtige Aufgabe bzw. Option für die deutsche EU-Ratspräsidentschaft in der zweiten Jahreshälfte 2020. Steueraspekte der Innovationsförderung und speziell auch klimafreundlicher Innovationsdynamik sind zu bedenken.
Q54|The impact of a Carbon Tax on the CO2 emissions reduction of wind|Energy policy aims to reduce emissions at least long-run cost while ensuring reliability. Its efficacy depends on the cost of emissions reduced. Britain introduced an additional carbon tax (the Carbon Price Support, CPS) for fuels used to generate electricity that by 2015 added £18/t CO2, dramatically reducing the coal share from 41% in 2013 to 6% in 2018. Policies have both short and long-run impacts. Both need to be estimated to measure carbon savings. The paper shows how to measure the Marginal Displacement Factor (MDF, tonnes CO2 /MWh) for wind. The short-run MDF is estimated econometrically while the long-run MDF is calculated from a unit commitment model of the GB system in 2015. We examine counter-factual fuel and carbon price scenarios. The CPS lowered the short-run SR-MDF by 7% in 2015 but raised the long-run LR-MDF (for a 25% increase in wind capacity) by 18%. We discuss reasons for the modest differences in the SR and LR MDFs. The CPS raised the 2016 wholesale price by £6.22/MWh with impacts on interconnector trade.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q54|Strengths and Weaknesses of the British Market Model|The UK privatized the electricity supply industry from 1989 in the expectation that private ownership and incentive regulation would invest and operate sufficiently more efficiently to offset the higher cost of private finance. This was achieved in the first two decades, assisted by spare capacity, contract-based entry of new efficient and cheap CCGTs, and regulatory pressure on transmission and distribution companies. The climate change imperative to decarbonize requires massive durable and very capital-intensive investment that casts doubt on the liberalised financing model. In the past 30 years, much has been learned about mitigating market power, the failings of an energy-only market, and the potential distortions of poorly designed prices for renewables and tariffs for networks. Innovation has been successfully stimulated though competitions. Efficiency, falling renewable costs and the carbon tax have almost completely driven coal out of the system.
Q54|Understanding overlapping policies: Internal carbon leakage and the punctured waterbed|"We present an integrated framework to understand the emissions impact of unilateral overlapping policies within a carbon-pricing system. ""Internal carbon leak-age"" captures emissions displacement within the system (e.g., due to greater product imports from a neighbouring country). The waterbed effect captures the policy's interaction with the system's overall emissions cap. Current market rules in the reformed EU ETS, California's carbon market and RGGI feature ""punctured"" waterbeds that allow overlapping policies to affect aggregate emissions. We present simple formulae to estimate internal carbon leakage for different types of policy such as a carbon price floor (perhaps with a border tax adjustment), an energy efficiency program, and renewables support. The sign and magnitude of the climate benefit from an overlapping policy varies widely depending on its design, location and timing. Punctured waterbeds raise the stakes: well-designed overlapping policies can be much more climate-effective but others now backfire.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
Q54|Long-term macroeconomic effects of climate change: A cross-country analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables - defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we find that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04oC per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01oC per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary significantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
Q54|Expected Costs of Damage From Hurricane Winds and Storm-Related Flooding|Damage from hurricane winds, storm surges, and heavy rain imposes costs on private entities, such as households and businesses, and on all levels of government. By CBOâ€™s estimate, the expected economic losses (average losses over the long run) from most types of such damage total $54 billion per year: $34 billion to the residential sector, $9 billion to commercial businesses, and $12 billion to the public sector.
Q54|Carbon-sensitive Meta-Productivity Growth and Technological Gap: An Empirical Analysis of Indian Thermal Power Sector|This paper measures carbon-sensitive efficiency and productivity growth in technologically heterogeneous coal-fired thermal power plants in India for the period of 2000 to 2013. It uses a unique data set of 56 plants, obtained petitioning the Right to Information Act 2005. We apply ‘within-MLE’ fixed effects stochastic frontier model to get consistent estimates of meta-directional output distance function. The thermal power plants are grouped in two categories: central sector and state sector. We find that the state sector plants have higher potential to simultaneously increase electricity generation and reduce carbon emission than the central sector plants. If all the state and central sectors plants were made to operate on the meta-frontier, reduction of 98 million tonnes of CO2 could have been achieved. Carbon-sensitive productivity growth in the central sector plants is higher than the plants in state sector, though in both the sectors productivity growth is governed by carbon-sensitive innovation effect. Commercialisation or autonomy in electricity generation also induces carbon-sensitive productivity growth and reduces carbon-sensitive productivity growth gap.
Q54|Temperature and Production Efficiency Growth: Empirical Evidence|This paper examines the marginal effects of temperature on the growth rate and variability in growth rate of Total Factor Productivity (TFP) of a country, as measured by its production efficiency relative to a stochastic frontier. Using panel data for 168 countries for the period 1950-2014 to estimate a one-step stochastic frontier function, we find that temperature has a concave relationship with the growth rate of production efficiency and with the variability in this growth rate. We observe that hotter than the average temperature is not only detrimental to production efficiency growth but also makes the growth less stable than otherwise and these effects are larger in very hot countries with average annual temperature greater than 25 oC. More importantly, we observe that the detrimental marginal effects of higher temperature depend on the level of economic development of a country they are larger for poor countries relative to rich countries. Our findings have implications for the specification of climate damage functions in integrated assessment models and estimates of country-specific social cost of carbon.
Q54|Making Smart Meters Smarter the Smart Way|We report first results from a large scale randomized control trial of different forms of energy consumption feedback facilitated by smart meters and smart phone feedback apps. Nearly 40,000 customers of a large energy retailer in the UK were exposed to either very basic feedback apps - i.e. simply giving consumers access to monthly energy consumption - or more advanced feedback involving peer group comparisons as well as dis-aggregation of total electricity consumption. We find that more advanced feedback can lead to an average consumption reduction of nearly 4% (Intent to Treat). Taking into account that a large number of customers never sign in to any feedback apps suggests that the reduction effect among customers that do sign in is up to 12%. The smart meter installation was implemented by different installation firms across our sample and we find the reduction effect only for one customers of one installer who displays higher capabilities along a number of metrics. This could suggest that achieving energy preservation objectives does not only depend on the technology involved but also on the capabilities and skills of firms installing those technologies. In the UK, smart meters are by default installed with In Home Displays (IHD) that provide real time feedback on energy use. Some of the customers in our sample did not receive an IHD and we explore if this had any impact on the consumption reduction effect described above. Customers with (and without) IHD comprise a self-selected sample so we have to be careful in drawing causal conclusions. However, we do not find any evidence that any energy reducing effect is contingent on IHDs.
Q54|Sober optimism and the formation of international environmental agreements|"We analyze a dynamic model of international environmental agreements (IEAs) where countries cannot make long-term commitments or use sanctions or rewards to induce cooperation. Countries can communicate with each other to build endogenous beliefs about the random consequences of (re)opening negotiation. If countries are patient, an effective agreement can be reached after a succession of short-lived ineffective agreements. This eventual success requires \sober optimism"": the understanding that cooperation is possible but not easy to achieve. Negotiations matter because beliefs are important. An empirical application illustrates the importance of sober optimism in the climate agreement."
Q54|A Meta-Analysis of the Literature on Climate Change and Migration|Recent surveys of the literature on climate change and migration emphasize the important diversity of outcomes and approaches of the empirical studies. In this paper, we conduct a meta-analysis in order to investigate the role of the methodological choices of these empirical studies in finding some particular results concerning the role of climatic factors as drivers of human mobility. We code 45 papers representative of the literature in terms of methodological approaches. This results in the coding of more than 80 variables capturing the methodology of the main dimensions of the analysis. These dimensions include authors’ reputation, type of mobility, measures of mobility, type of data, context of the study, econometric methods and last but not least measures of the climatic factors. We look at the influence of these characteristics on the probability of finding any effect of climate change, of finding a displacement effect, of finding an increase in immobility and of finding evidence in favour of a direct versus an indirect effect. Our results high- light the role of some main methodological choices, such as the frequency of the data on mobility, the level of development, the measures of human mobility and of the climatic factors as well as the econometric methodology.
Q54|Drought and Property Prices: Empirical Evidence from Iran|This study demonstrates an economic consequence of climate change and water crises in Iran. It examines the effect of drought on housing prices, residential land prices, and housing rents in Iran. Using data from provinces of Iran from 1993 to 2015 and applying static and dynamic panel fixed effects estimators, we find evidence that an increase in the balance of water (reducing the severity of drought) within provinces has a positive effect on property prices. Our results have important implications for Iranian policymakers and property investors.
Q54|Public attention to environmental issues and stock market returns|This paper empirically examines the effect of public attention to climate change and pollution on the weekly returns on US sustainability stock indices (i.e. the DJSI US and the FTSE4Good USA Index) in comparison to their conventional counterparts (i.e. the S&P 500 Index and the FTSE USA). In addition to unexpected global climate-related natural weather disasters, we consider two complementary measures of public attention to these environmental issues: (i) US media attention to climate change and pollution and (ii) the US Google Search Volume Index for these two keywords. Robust to several sensitivity analyses, our econometric analysis for the period from 2004 to 2018 reveals that public attention to environmental issues has a significantly positive (negative) effect on the returns on US sustainability (conventional) stock indices. A possible explanation of this result is that high public attention to environmental issues may drive traditionally sustainable investors, neo-sustainable, and opportunistic self-interested investors to favor stocks of sustainable firms. The insights from our empirical study are important for private and institutional investors, managers of firms, and public policy.
Q54|Reference Forecasts for CO2 Emissions from Fossil-Fuel Combustion and Cement Production in Portugal|"We provide reference forecasts for CO2 emissions from burning fuel fossil and cement production in Portugal based on an ARFIMA model approach and using annual data from 1950 to 2017. Our ""business as usual"" projections suggest a pattern of decarbonization that will cause the reduction of 3.3 Mt until 2030 and 5.1 Mt between 2030 and 2050. This scenario allows us to assess effort required by the new IPCC goals to ensure carbon neutrality by 2050. For this objective to be achieved it is necessary for emissions to be reduced by 39.6 Mt by 2050. Our results suggest that of these, only 8.4 Mt will result from the inertia of the national emissions system. The remaining reduction on emissions of 31.2 Mt of CO2 will require additional policy efforts. Accordingly, our results suggest that about 79% of the reductions necessary to achieve IPCC goals require deliberate policy efforts. Finally, the presence in the data of long memory with mean reversion suggests that policies must be persistent to ensure that these reductions in emissions are also permanent."
Q54|ARFIMA Reference Forecasts for Worldwide CO2 Emissions and the National Dimension of the Policy Efforts to Meet IPCC Targets|We use an ARFIMA approach to develop reference scenario projections for CO2 emissions worldwide and for seven different regions. Our objective is to determine the magnitude of the policy efforts necessary to achieve the IPCC emissions reductions goals. For worldwide emissions, the aggregate policy effort required to achieve the 2050 goals is equivalent to 97.4% of 2010 emissions. This policy effort is frontloaded as about 60% of such efforts would have to occur by 2030. In order to achieve the IPCC target the policy efforts in the cases of the USA, EU(28), Russia, and Japan - which account for 32% of worldwide emissions, are lower and less frontloaded than the IPCC goals themselves. In the case of China, India and the ROW, which account for 68% of worldwide emissions, additional policy efforts are necessary to achieve reductions in emissions of 105.0%, 156.0% and 111.4%, of the 2010 levels, respectively. In the case of India, policy efforts are not only rather severe but also rather dramatically frontloaded, as about 74% of the policy efforts would have to occur by 2030. Our results suggest that the policies toward decarbonization must consider the specific regional characteristics of emissions. Given the differences in the inertia of emissions in the different regions a one-size fits all approach is not the best approach.
Q54|The Contrasting Importance of Quality of Life and Quality of Business for Domestic and International Migrants|We examine whether bilateral regional migration flows are driven by the city’s quality of life (QL) or quality of business (QB). The QL and QB measures are constructed using (quality-adjusted) rents and wages in each city. QL and QB reflect the willingness to pay of households and firms, respectively, for local amenities. The measures are constructed for 31 urban areas in New Zealand using five-yearly census data covering 1986 to 2013. We adopt a gravity model of regional migration – augmented by destination and origin QL and QB – to model bilateral flows of working-age migrants (post tertiary education and pre-retirement age). We also model flows between urban and rural areas and flows for the urban areas to and from overseas locations. We find different attractors for international versus domestic migrants according to the type of city amenity. International migrants are more attracted to cities with productive amenities whereas domestic migrants are more attracted to places with consumption amenities. Thus, in deciding on the type of city amenity to enhance, city officials implicitly choose the type of migrant that they attract as well as the type of city that may result.
Q54|Identifying barriers to adoption of “no-cost” greenhouse gas mitigation practices in pastoral systems|New Zealand scientists have suggested that multiple pastoral farming practices could reduce on-farm biological greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while maintaining (and in some circumstances even increasing) farm profits (e.g. de Klein and Dynes, 2017). However, these win–win practices (which we define as “no-cost” mitigation practices) are reported to be under-adopted in New Zealand (Reisinger et al. 2018). The focus of this paper is to identify barriers affecting the adoption or expansion of no-cost mitigation practices by farmers in New Zealand. We define and categorize barriers to adoption using a typology of barriers developed by Jaffe (2017). This typology provides a comprehensive list and precise/accurate description of multiple barriers that might be present in farming contexts. First, we confront the typology with empirical evidence in the literature studying the barriers to the adoptions of technologies and practices in the context of pastoral farming. Although the evidence on perceptions and adoption of GHG emissions mitigation options in New Zealand is very limited, several of the barriers in Jaffe’s typology have been evidenced by researchers as affecting the decisions to adopt different innovative technologies and practices on farms. To complement the literature review and, more importantly, focus on no-cost GHG mitigation practices, we conducted interviews with 14 farmers in different regions of the country. In these conversations we discussed different managerial and practical implications of five different no-cost farming practices, with the aim of identifying barriers that affect their adoption or expansion. We describe in the paper more than 40 quotes obtained from farmers, from which we identified the occurrence of 16 different barriers. Among these, the “Unsureness about practicality”, “risk and uncertainty” and “complex interactions” barriers showed as the most frequent barriers identified as causing under-adoption of the evaluated practices. In addition, different types of perceived costs (financial barriers), such as “modelling mismatch” and “learning and adjustment”, have been pointed out as a limitation for adoption (which are captured by barriers category “arguably efficient” in Jaffe’s typology). We also found that in some cases non-financial barriers seem to be interconnected – in especial the case when the interactions’ complexity increases the riskiness of the outcome (the “risk and uncertainty” barrier) and makes it difficult to see whether the mitigation option is practical (a barrier of “unsureness about practicality”).
Q54|A Community of Practice for Economic Modelling of Climate Change Mitigation in New Zealand|The public and private sectors face important strategic decisions about low-emissions transitional pathways. Such decisions require sound evidence, with input from experts and stakeholders across the board. Models can be used for evidence-based decision-making, but New Zealand has shortcomings in its capacity for climate policy analysis, particularly in comparison with other jurisdictions. These deficiencies pose a serious risk to New Zealand’s future economic development. Climate policy analysis requires assessing a wide range of factors. A multi-model approach supported by multiple providers improves consistency, coordination, and collaboration across members of the modelling community, users of modelling results, and funders of modelling. This document summarises the compelling case for developing a New Zealand ‘Climate Policy Modelling Initiative’ (CPMI). This initiative would coordinate and enhance delivery of modelling across multiple providers. This work is informed by several workshops that brought together economic modellers from a range of organisations. If supported by government leadership and commitment, the CPMI would have a transformational effect on New Zealand’s capacity to plan for a successful low-emissions future.
Q54|Spatial Correlation, Trade, and Inequality: Evidence from the Global Climate|This paper shows that greater global spatial correlation of productivities can increase cross-country welfare dispersion by increasing the correlation between a country's productivity and its gains from trade. We causally validate this prediction using a global climatic phenomenon as a natural experiment. We find that gains from trade in cereals over the last half-century were larger for more productive countries and smaller for less productive countries when cereal productivity was more spatially correlated. Incorporating this role for spatial interdependence into a projection of climate-change impacts raises projected international inequality, with higher welfare losses across most of Africa.
Q54|Estimating the Economic Impacts of Climate Change Using Weather Observations|This paper reviews methods that have been used to statistically measure the effect of climate on economic value, using historic data on weather, climate, economic activity and other variables. This has been an active area of research for several decades, with many recent developments and discussion of the best way of measuring climate damages. The paper begins with a conceptual framework covering issues relevant to estimating the costs of climate change impacts. It then considers several approaches to econometrically estimate impacts that have been proposed in the literature: cross-sections, linear and non-linear panel methods, long-differences, and partitioning variation. For each method we describe the kind of impacts (short-run vs long-run) estimated, the type of weather or climate variation used, and the pros and cons of the approach.
Q54|Market Expectations About Climate Change|An emerging literature examines how agents update their beliefs about climate change. Most studies have relied on indirect belief measures or opinion polls. We analyze a direct measure: prices of financial products whose payouts are tied to future weather outcomes. We compare these market expectations to climate model output for the years 2002 to 2018 as well as observed weather station data across eight cities in the US. All datasets show statistically significant and comparable warming trends. Nonparametric estimates suggest that trends in weather markets follow climate model predictions and are not based on shorter-term variation in observed weather station data. When money is at stake, agents are accurately anticipating warming trends in line with the scientific consensus of climate models.
Q54|Amenities, Risk, and Flood Insurance Reform|This paper provides the first, comprehensive evidence on the question of whether the subsidized flood insurance rates are needed to meet the affordability goal of the National Flood Insurance Program. We use IRS records at the zip code level from 2009 to 2016 to compare the real median incomes of homeowners in areas subject to flooding risks to those homeowners in neighboring zip codes. Our analysis includes all of the Gulf Coast states and over 1000 other communities around the United States containing FEMA designated Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA). There are clear patterns of positive income stratification for coastal locations in Florida, New Jersey, and New York. We also find lower income for coastal locations in California, North Carolina, as well as the shoreline along rivers identified as in SFHA in Delaware, and Virginia fit this pattern.
Q54|Environmental Policy on the Back of an Envelope: A Cobb-Douglas Model is Not Just a Teaching Tool|To clarify and interpret the workings of a large computable general equilibrium (CGE) model of environmental policy in the U.S., we build an aggregated Cobb-Douglas (CD) model that can be solved easily and analytically. Its closed-form expressions show exactly how key parameters determine the sign and size of effects from a large new carbon tax on emissions, revenue, prices, output, and welfare. Data and parameters from the detailed, dynamic CGE model of Goulder and Hafstead (2018) are used in the CD model to calculate results that can be compared with theirs. Results from the CD model track those from the large CGE model quite closely, even though the CD model omits much detail such as the number of sectors, intermediate inputs, and international trade. A CGE model is quite useful to generate detailed numerical results and to reflect on particular aspects of environmental policy, but the simpler CD model provides a transparent view of exactly how the policy affects key outcomes.
Q54|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the world's most extensive rainforest, where Brazil's federal government issued a ‘Priority List’ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using ‘changes-in-changes’ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
Q54|The Phenomenon of Summer Diarrhea and its Waning, 1910-1930|During the first two decades of the 20th century, diarrheal deaths among American infants and children surged every summer. Although we still do not know what pathogen (or pathogens) caused this phenomenon, the consensus view is that it was eventually controlled through public health efforts at the municipal level. Using data from 26 major American cities for the period 1910-1930, we document the phenomenon of summer diarrhea and explore its dissipation. We find that water filtration is associated with a 15-17 percent reduction in diarrheal mortality among children under the age of two during the non-summer months, but does not seem to have had an effect on diarrheal mortality during the summer. In general, we find little evidence to suggest that public health interventions undertaken at the municipal level contributed to the dissipation of summer diarrhea. Our results are relevant for many parts of the developing world today, where climate change is expected to affect the length and intensity of seasons as well as the incidence of diarrheal diseases.
Q54|Climatic Constraints on Aggregate Economic Output|Efficient responses to climate change require accurate estimates of both aggregate damages and where and to whom they occur. While specific case studies and simulations have suggested that climate change disproportionately affects the poor, large-scale direct evidence of the magnitude and origins of this disparity is lacking. Similarly, evidence on aggregate damages, which is a central input into the evaluation of mitigation policy, often relies on country-level data whose accuracy has been questioned. Here we assemble longitudinal data on economic output from over 11,000 districts across 37 countries, including previously nondigitized sources in multiple languages, to assess both the aggregate and distributional impacts of warming temperatures. We find that local-level growth in aggregate output responds non-linearly to temperature across all regions, with output peaking at cooler temperatures (less than 10°C) than estimated in earlier country analyses and declining steeply thereafter. Long difference estimates of the impact of longer-term (decadal) trends in temperature on income are larger than estimates from an annual panel model, providing additional evidence for growth effects. Impacts of a given temperature exposure do not vary meaningfully between rich and poor regions, but exposure to damaging temperatures is much more common in poor regions. These results indicate that additional warming will exacerbate inequality, particularly across countries, and that economic development alone will be unlikely to reduce damages, as commonly hypothesized. We estimate that since 2000, warming has already cost both the US and the EU at least $4 trillion in lost output, and tropical countries are greater than 5% poorer than they would have been without this warming.
Q54|Hurricanes, Climate Change Policies and Electoral Accountability|This paper studies how politicians and voters respond to new information on the threats of climate change. Using data on the universe of federal disaster declarations between 1989 and 2014, we document that congress members from districts hit by a hurricane are more likely to support bills promoting more environmental regulation and control in the year after the disaster. The response to hurricanes does not seem to be driven by logrolling behavior or lobbysts' pressure. The change in legislative agenda is persistent over time, and it is associated with an electoral penalty in the following elections. The response is mainly promoted by representatives in safe districts, those with more experience, and those with strong pro-environment records. Our evidence thus reveals that natural disasters may trigger a permanent change in politicians' beliefs, but only those with a sufficient electoral strength or with strong ideologies are willing to engage in promoting policies with short-run costs and long-run benefits.
Q54|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy|There is widespread agreement among economists – and a diverse set of other policy analysts – that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap and trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q54|Addressing Climate Change through Price and Non-Price Interventions|Recognizing the importance of the second-best nature of economies, the Stern-Stiglitz report on carbon pricing departed from the recommendation of a single carbon price for all uses at all places and times. This paper provides some of the analytics behind these recommendations. First, I analyze the circumstances in which distributional concerns make desirable a tax or regulation inducing significant reductions in carbon usage in a carbon-intensive sector for which consumers are disproportionately rich. Such policies allow lower carbon prices elsewhere without exceeding carbon emission targets. The cost of the resulting production inefficiency may, under the identified circumstances, be less than the distributional benefits. The paper considers the circumstances in which such differential policies may be best implemented through regulation vs. differential pricing, as well as differential effects on political economy and norm setting. Second, I consider the effect of carbon price trajectories on induced innovation, providing general conditions under which the optimal carbon path should, at least eventually, be falling over time. Finally, I revisit the price-versus-quantity debate and highlight important aspects of the dynamic nature of the problem.
Q54|The Urban Crime and Heat Gradient in High and Low Poverty Areas|We use spatially disaggregated daily crime data for the City of Los Angeles to measure the impact of heat and pollution on crime and to study how this relationship varies across the city. On average, overall crime increases by 2.2% and violent crime by 5.7% on days with maximum daily temperatures above 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29.4° C) compared to days below that threshold. The heat-crime relationship is more pronounced in low-income neighborhoods. This suggests that heat shocks can increase spatial urban quality of life differences through their effect on crime. We use other administrative data and find some evidence that policing intensity declines on extremely hot days. These findings highlight that the quality of urban governance during times of extreme stress may be an important policy lever in helping all socio-economic groups adapt to climate change.
Q54|Protecting Infants from Natural Disasters: The Case of Vitamin A Supplementation and a Tornado in Bangladesh|Severe environmental shocks have grown in frequency and intensity due to climate change. Can policy protect against the often devastating human impacts of these shocks, particularly for vulnerable populations? We study this question by leveraging data from a situation in which a tornado tore through an area involved in a double-blind cluster-randomized controlled trial of at-birth vitamin A supplementation in Bangladesh. Tornado exposure in utero and in infancy decreased birth size and physical growth, and increased the incidence of severe fevers. But infants who received vitamin A supplementation, which boosts immune system functioning, were protected from these effects. Tornado impacts and protective effects were both substantially larger for boys. Our results suggest that wide-scale supplementation policies would generate potential health benefits in disaster-prone areas of low-income countries.
Q54|Hurricane Katrina Floods New Jersey: The Role of Information in the Market Response to Flood Risk|This study uses hedonic property models to explore how coastal real estate markets subject to heterogeneous information treatments respond to flood risk. We identify reactions to flood risk, distinctly from price effects due to flood damage, by examining non-local flooding events. Utilizing a difference-in-difference methodology, we test whether the coastal real estate market in New Jersey responds to several well-publicized hurricanes and tropical storms that did not strike the Atlantic seaboard. We find that homes in high flood risk zones situated in towns that participate in public flood awareness activities incur a 7 to 16 percent decrease in price after the non-local shock.
Q54|Should Electric Vehicle Drivers Pay a Mileage Tax?|In many countries the revenue from gasoline taxes is used to fund highways and other transportation infrastructure. As the number of electric vehicles on the road increases, this raises questions about the effectiveness and equity of this financing mechanism. In this paper, we ask whether electric vehicle drivers should pay a mileage tax. Though the gasoline tax has been traditionally viewed as a benefits tax, we take instead the perspective of economic efficiency. We derive a condition for the optimal electric vehicle mileage tax that highlights a key trade-off. On the one hand, there are externalities from driving including traffic congestion and accidents that imply a mileage tax is efficient. On the other hand, gasoline tends to be underpriced, so a low (or even negative) mileage tax might be justified to encourage substitution away from gasoline-powered vehicles. We then turn to an empirical analysis aimed at better understanding the current policy landscape for electric vehicles in the United States. Using newly available nationally-representative microdata we calculate that electric vehicles have reduced gasoline tax revenues by $250 million annually. We show that the foregone tax revenue is highly concentrated in a handful of states and is highly regressive, as most electric vehicles are driven by high-income households, and we discuss how this motivates and informs optimal policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q54|Coase, Hotelling and Pigou: The Incidence of a Carbon Tax and CO2 Emissions|A carbon tax has been widely discussed as a way of reducing fossil fuel use and mitigating climate change, generally in a static framework. Unlike standard goods that can be produced, oil is an exhaustible resource. Parts of its price reflects scarcity rents, i.e., the fact that there is limited availability. We highlight important dynamic aspects of a global carbon tax, which will reallocate consumption through time: some of the initial reduction in consumption will be offset through higher consumption later on. Only reserves with high enough extraction cost will be priced out of the market. Using data from a large proprietary database of field-level oil data, we show that carbon prices even as high as 200 dollars per ton of CO2 will only reduce cumulative emissions from oil by 4% as the supply curve is very steep for high oil prices and few reserves drop out. The supply curve flattens out for lower price, and the effect of an increased carbon tax becomes larger. For example, a carbon price of 600 dollars would reduce cumulative emissions by 60%. On the flip side, a global cap and trade system that limits global extraction by a modest amount like 4% expropriates a large fraction of scarcity rents and would imply a high permit price of $200. The tax incidence varies over time: initially, about 75% of the carbon price will be passed on to consumers, but this share declines through time and even becomes negative as oil prices will drop in future years relative to a case of no carbon tax. The net present value of producer and consumer surplus decrease by roughly equal amounts, which are almost entirely offset by increased tax revenues.
Q54|Can Pigou at the Polls Stop Us Melting the Poles?|Surveys show majority U.S. support for a carbon tax. Yet none has been adopted. Why? We study two failed carbon tax initiatives in Washington State in 2016 and 2018. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we show that Washington's real-world campaigns reduced support by 20 percentage points. Resistance to higher energy prices explains opposition to these policies in the average precinct, while ideology explains 90% of the variation in votes across precincts. Conservatives preferred the 2016 revenue-neutral policy, while liberals preferred the 2018 green-spending policy. Yet we forecast both initiatives would fail in other states, demonstrating that surveys are overly optimistic.
Q54|Output and Attribute-Based Carbon Regulation Under Uncertainty|Output-based carbon regulations—such as fuel economy standards and the rate-based standards in the Clean Power Plan—create well-known incentives to inefficiently increase output. Similar distortions are created by attribute-based regulations. This paper demonstrates that, despite these distortions, output and attribute-based standards can always yield greater expected welfare than “flat” emission standards given uncertainty in demand for output (or attributes), assuming locally constant marginal damages. For fuel economy standards, the welfare-maximizing amount of attribute or mileage-basing is likely small relative to current policy. For the electricity sector, however, an intensity standard may yield greater expected welfare than a flat standard.
Q54|Mortgage Finance in the Face of Rising Climate Risk|Recent evidence suggests an increasing risk of natural disasters of the magnitude of hurricane Katrina and Sandy. Concurrently, the number and volume of flood insurance policies has been declining since 2008. Hence, households who have purchased a house in coastal areas may be at increasing risk of defaulting on their mortgage. Commercial banks have the ability to screen and price mortgages for flood risk. Banks also retain the option to securitize some of these loans. In particular, bank lenders may have an incentive to sell their worse flood risk to the two main agency securitizers, the Federal National Mortgage Association, commonly known as Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac. In contrast with commercial banks, Fannie and Freddie follow observable rules set by the FHFA for the purchase and the pricing of securitized mortgages. This paper uses the impact of one such sharp rule, the conforming loan limit, on securitization volumes. We estimate whether lenders’ sales of mortgages with loan amounts right below the conforming loan limit increase significantly after a natural disaster that caused more than a billion dollar in damages. Results suggest a substantial increase in securitization activity in years following such a billion-dollar disaster. Such increase is larger in neighborhoods for which such a disaster is “new news”, i.e. does not have a long history of hurricanes. Conforming loans are riskier in dimensions not observed in publicly available data sets: the borrowers have lower credit scores and they are more likely to become delinquent or default. A structurally estimated model of mortgage pricing with asymmetric information suggests that bunching at the conforming loan limit is an increasing function of perceived price volatility and declining price trends. A simulation of the impact of increasing climate risk on mortgage origination volumes with and without the GSEs suggests that the GSEs may act as an implicit insurer, i.e a substitute for the declining National Flood Insurance Program.
Q54|The use of revenues from carbon pricing|The paper collects comprehensive and detailed data on what 40 OECD and G20 economies do with the revenues from carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes on energy use. It notes that constraints – which can take the form of political commitments or legal earmarks – on revenue use differ between carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes. Constraints are less common for excise taxes, which also raise the most revenue. Carbon tax revenues are relatively often associated with environmental tax reforms, involving reductions in personal or corporate income taxes. Revenues from emissions trading systems are frequently directed towards green spending. The results may be relevant to the political economy of ambitious carbon pricing schemes in the sense that the political expedience of choices on revenue use may depend on the amount of revenue raised.
Q54|Tracking finance flows towards assessing their consistency with climate objectives|Achieving a low-greenhouse gas (GHG) development requires making finance flows consistent with this objective. In order to measure progress to date as well as inform future public action in this area, this paper calls for further efforts to track gross primary investments flows in new infrastructure and equipment and the refurbishment of such assets, as well underlying sources of finance. The proposed scope focuses on tangible fixed assets with a direct and significant impact on GHG emissions.
Q54|Improving economic efficiency and climate mitigation outcomes through international co-ordination on carbon pricing|This paper presents the potential benefits and challenges of enhanced international co-ordination on carbon pricing and outlines the different types and levels of co-ordination that are available for national and sub-national governments. These levels include, inter alia, facilitating new pricing schemes, phasing out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, sectoral approaches, co-ordination on minimum carbon prices and carbon pricing clubs. Jurisdictions may want to adopt several of these options simultaneously and may co-ordinate at multiple levels of government or across countries and sectors. This creates a bottom-up ‘web of carbon pricing schemes’, which can be an important element in delivering the Nationally Determined Contributions of the Paris Agreement and which has the potential to support greater levels of climate action and ambition.
Q54|Economic interactions between climate change and outdoor air pollution|Climate change and outdoor air pollution are two of the most challenging environmental issues that modern society faces. These challenges are strongly linked through their emission sources, the sectors they affect and the policies that can be implemented to reduce emissions. They also interact in the way they affect economic growth in the coming decades, although this aspect has been neglected in the literature. This paper presents the first global analysis of the joint economic consequences of climate change and outdoor air pollution to 2060, in the absence of new policies to address these challenges. A common methodology and a consistent modelling framework is used to specify the main economic interaction effects. While this paper provides a useful framework to analyse the interactions between two environmental issues in the economic system, the results need to be interpreted carefully, because of limited data availability.
Q54|On the Evolution of U.S. Temperature Dynamics|Climate change is a multidimensional shift. While much research has documented rising mean temperature levels, we also examine range-based measures of daily temperature volatility. Specifically, using data for select U.S. cities over the past half-century, we compare the evolving time series dynamics of the average temperature level, AVG, and the diurnal temperature range, DTR (the difference between the daily maximum and minimum temperatures at a given location). We characterize trend and seasonality in these two series using linear models with time-varying coefficients. These straightforward yet flexible approximations provide evidence of evolving DTR seasonality, stable AVG seasonality, and conditionally Gaussian but heteroskedastic innovations for both DTR and AVG.
Q54|Fiscal policy and ecological sustainability: A post-Keynesian perspective|Fiscal policy has a strong role to play in the transition to an ecologically sustainable economy. This paper critically discusses the way that green fiscal policy has been analysed in both conventional and post-Keynesian approaches. It then uses a recently developed post-Keynesian ecological macroeconomic model in order to provide a comparative evaluation of three different types of green fiscal policy: carbon taxes, green subsidies and green public investment. We show that (i) carbon taxes reduce global warming but increase financial risks due to their adverse effects on the profitability of firms and credit availability; (ii) green subsidies and green public investment improve ecological efficiency, but their positive environmental impact is partially offset by their macroeconomic rebound effects; and (iii) a green fiscal policy mix derives better outcomes than isolated policies. Directions for future heterodox macroeconomic research on the links between fiscal policy and ecological sustainability are suggested.
Q54|Global economic and environmental outcomes of the Paris Agreement|In this paper, we use a multi-region model of the world economy to analyze the economic and environmental outcomes that are likely to result from Paris Climate Agreement. To construct the modeling scenario, we convert the disparate emission targets for each country or region in their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) formulations into estimated reductions in CO2 emissions relative to a baseline scenario with no new climate policies. We then solve for the tax rate path on CO2 in each region that achieves the NDC-consistent emissions reductions in the target year, 2030 for most regions. We find that if all regions achieve their NDCs, the Paris Agreement significantly reduces CO2 emissions relative to baseline. However, the Paris policy scenario suggests that global CO2 emissions would not decline in absolute terms relative to 2015 levels, let alone follow a path consistent with a 2°C stabilization scenario. Comparing projected 2030 CO2 tax rates to the same year’s percent emissions abatement relative to baseline, we find that declines in CO2 emissions do not necessarily correlate with the CO2 tax rate. We find the climate policies result in significant macroeconomic spillovers across the global economy, meaning that macroeconomic outcomes across countries depend not only on their own commitments but also on those of the rest of the world. We also explore how outcomes could change if select countries (United States, China and Australia) unilaterally withdraw from the agreement and undertake no new climate policies. We find that non-participation leads to economic gains (in terms of GDP) for these countries relative to participating, illustrating the challenge of forging an international agreement with participation by all major emitters and fossil fuel producers. However, we also find that if we account for the monetized climate and domestic cobenefits of emissions reductions, those countries, including Australia, are worse off if they unilaterally withdraw from the Paris Agreement than if they participate. Thus, although we find there are gross costs to participating, doing so generates net benefits for the individual country participants.
Q54|Long-Term Macroeconomic Effects of Climate Change: A Cross-Country Analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables-defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we fi?nd that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04° per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01° per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary signifi?cantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
Q54|The optimal carbon tax with an endogenous chance of a tipping climate|This paper describes an integrated assessment model with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. The possibility of tipping leads to the following linked outcomes: a prolonged period of peak temperature; a rebound in emissions prior to and during peak temperature; and a fall in the optimal carbon tax as a ratio of output prior to and during peak temperature. Although tipping can occur in any period where temperature rises to a new maximum, the optimal carbon price can be calculated from future temperature outcomes conditional on no tipping. Learning that tipping has not occurred lowers the tax.
Q54|Weighing cows and coal: Optimal taxes for methane and carbon from a tipping risk|Different optimal tax paths for short-lived methane and long-lived carbon arise in a cost-benefit framework with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. Tax paths are compared with a cost minimising approach where an upper-temperature limit is set. In both approaches, the weight (ratio) of methane to carbon taxes converge to the same value by the end of the peak temperature stabilisation period. Numerical results from the cost-benefit framework suggest: the optimal weight is close to the current United Nations policy of a 100-year Global Warming Potential; and the time-frame should decrease to align with the expected end of peak temperature.
Q54|Optimal climate policy with directed technical change, extensive margins and a decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|This paper extends the climate model with endogenous technology of Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012). A non-energy sector is introduced which decreases the costs of abatement by more than an order of magnitude through the extensive margin of labour, as labour can move freely between sectors. An extensive margin of research, where researchers can switch between non-energy and energy research, leads to a period of intense research in the clean sector above the long-run share and increases the power of policy to avert environmental disaster. A decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean energy rises is also considered, reflecting the increasing difficulty of integrating intermittent clean energy supply in electricity. A decreasing elasticity increases the initial optimal tax on dirty energy and therefore lowers the subsidies required to direct technical change towards clean energy.
Q54|"A comment on innovation in ""The environment and directed technical change"""|The framework used to endogenise technology growth by Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012), hereafter AABH, allows the existence of unstable equilibria and does not provide a rationale for specifying which equilibrium should apply when more than one exists. This paper: (i) suggests a rationale for choosing one corner solution used in AABH that constitutes a lower bound for the subsidy or tax required to direct clean research; (ii) argues against use of the other corner solution; and (iii) provides an alternative equilibrium that constitutes an upper bound to the policy required. The alternative methods can produce substantially different results when the elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs is high.
Q54|Evidence for and modelling of a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|A review of the literature indicates a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean inputs rises. In the power sector, which is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, integrating intermittent clean energy supply becomes increasingly difficult as the clean share rises. This paper describes a simple structural model of electricity generation which: demonstrates how the elasticity falls as the clean share rises; can replicate the range of results from the electricity literature; considers the effects of storage, and; facilitates estimation of a suitable production function. A bimodal production function with two elasticity regimes - an elasticity above 8 up to a 50 to 70 per cent clean share and an elasticity below 3 beyond this share – can replicate results well from the structural model.
Q54|Cooperation in the climate commons|This paper surveys the existing empirical evidence on the scope for cooperation in the climate commons and on the effectiveness of possible interventions to spur it. Given the global public good properties of climate change mitigation, mitigation efforts have to rely on the willingness of individuals to contribute voluntarily to this public good, by reducing the demand on the environmental commons either in the form of ‘green’ consumer behaviour or through the acceptance of costly climate policy. Both are likely to be necessary. The authors survey evidence that suggests a central role for local social norms in the provision of global public goods. They discuss the importance of the visibility of norms and the role of beliefs when such visibility is lacking, concluding that some actors may behave as conditional cooperators when confronted with global dilemmas, similarly to what takes place in the local commons.
Q54|The impact of a Carbon Tax on the CO2 emissions reduction of wind|Energy policy aims to reduce emissions at least long-run cost while ensuring reliability. Its efficacy depends on the cost of emissions reduced. Britain introduced an additional carbon tax (the Carbon Price Support, CPS) for fuels used to generate electricity that by 2015 added £18/t CO2, dramatically reducing the coal share from 41% in 2013 to 6% in 2018. Policies have both short and long-run impacts. Both need to be estimated to measure carbon savings. The paper shows how to measure the Marginal Displacement Factor (MDF, tonnes CO2 /MWh) for wind. The short-run MDF is estimated econometrically while the long-run MDF is calculated from a unit commitment model of the GB system in 2015. We examine counter-factual fuel and carbon price scenarios. The CPS lowered the short-run SR-MDF by 7% in 2015 but raised the long-run LR-MDF (for a 25% increase in wind capacity) by 18%. We discuss reasons for the modest differences in the SR and LR MDFs. The CPS raised the 2016 wholesale price by £6.22/MWh with impacts on interconnector trade.
Q54|Strengths and Weaknesses of the British Market Model|No abstract is available for this item.
Q54|Understanding overlapping policies: Internal carbon leakage and the punctured waterbed|"We present an integrated framework to understand the emissions impact of unilateral overlapping policies within a carbon-pricing system. ""Internal carbon leak-age"" captures emissions displacement within the system (e.g., due to greater product imports from a neighbouring country). The waterbed effect captures the policy's interaction with the system's overall emissions cap. Current market rules in the reformed EU ETS, California's carbon market and RGGI feature ""punctured"" waterbeds that allow overlapping policies to affect aggregate emissions. We present simple formulae to estimate internal carbon leakage for different types of policy such as a carbon price floor (perhaps with a border tax adjustment), an energy efficiency program, and renewables support. The sign and magnitude of the climate benefit from an overlapping policy varies widely depending on its design, location and timing. Punctured waterbeds raise the stakes: well-designed overlapping policies can be much more climate-effective but others now backfire."
Q54|Buffering Volatility: Storage Investments and Technology-Specific Renewable Energy Support|Mitigating climate change will require integrating large amounts of highly intermittent renewable energy (RE) sources in future electricity markets. Considerable uncertainties exist about the cost and availability of future large-scale storage to alleviate the potential mismatch between demand and supply. This paper examines the suitability of regulatory (public policy) mechanisms for coping with the volatility induced by intermittent RE sources, using a numerical equilibrium model of a future wholesale electricity market. We find that the optimal RE subsidies are technology-specific reflecting the heterogeneous value for system integration. Differentiated RE subsidies reduce the curtailment of excess production, thereby preventing costly investments in energy storage. Using a simple cost-benefit framework, we show that a “smart” design of RE support policies significantly reduces the level of optimal storage. We further find that the marginal benefits of storage rapidly decrease for short-term (intra-day) storage and are small for long-term (seasonal) storage independent of the storage level. This suggests that storage is not likely to be the limiting factor for decarbonizing the electricity sector.
Q54|Pricing climate change risks: CAPM with rare disasters and stochastic probabilities|There are concerns that climate-related physical and political risks are not yet properly reflected in asset prices. To address these concerns, we develop a dynamic asset pricing framework with rare disasters related to climate change. The novelty of this paper lies in linking carbon emissions and portfolio composition with the stochastically-varying probability of these events. Using theory and simulations we study the implications of the imminent threat of climate change on different market measures and on the participation of carbon-intensive assets in the aggregate portfolio, as well as the conditions that lead to these assets becoming stranded. Our result suggest that climate change implies a positive and increasing risk premium, with the overall equity premium depending on the volatility of the stochastic process that governs climate change risk. Transition risks lower substantially the participation of carbon intensive assets in the market portfolio, which should be fully de-carbonized by the end of the century for the worst IPCC emissions scenario.
Q54|French Attitudes over Climate Change and Climate Policies|This paper aims to assess the prospects for French climate policies after the Yellow Vests crisis halted the planned increase in the carbon tax. From a large representative survey, we elicit knowledge, perceptions and values over climate change, we examine opinions relative to carbon taxation, and we assess support for other climate policies. Specific attention is given to the link between perceptions of climate change and attitudes towards policies. The paper also studies in details the determinants of attitudes in terms of political and socio-demographic variables. Among many results, we find limited knowledge but high concern for climate change. We also document a large rejection of the carbon tax but majority support for stricter norms and green investments, and reveal the rationales behind these preferences. Our study entails policy recommendations, such as an information campaign on climate change. Indeed, we find that climate awareness increases support for climate policies but no evidence for the formation of opinions through partisan cues as in the US, suggesting that better access to science could foster support for the ecology.
Q54|Disaster risks, disaster strikes and economic growth: the role of preferences|This paper studies the role of preferences on the link between disasters and growth. An endogenous growth model with disasters is presented in which one can derive closed-form solutions with non-expected utility. The model distinguishes disaster risks and disaster strikes and highlights the numerous mechanisms through which they may affect growth. It is shown that separating aversion to risk from the elasticity of inter-temporal substitution bears critical qualitative implications that enable to better understand these mechanisms. In a calibration of the model, it is shown that for standard parameter values, the additional restriction imposed by the time-additive expected utility can also lead to substantial quantitative bias regarding optimal risk-mitigation policies and growth. The paper thus calls for a wider use of non-expected utility in the modeling of disasters, in particular with respect to environmental disasters and climate change.
Q54|Mineral resources for renewable energy: optimal timing of energy production|The production of energy from renewable sources is much more intensive in minerals than that from fossil resources. The scarcity of certain minerals limits the potential for substituting renewable energy for scarce fossil resources. However, minerals can be recycled, while fossils cannot. We develop an intertemporal model to study the dynamics of the optimal energy mix in the presence of mineral intensive renewable energy and fossil energy. We analyze energy production when both mineral and fossil resources are scarce, but minerals are recyclable. We show that the greater the recycling rate of minerals, the more the energy mix should rely on renewable energy, and the sooner should investment in renewable capacity take place. We confirm these results even in the presence of other better known factors that a ect the optimal schedule of resource use: growth in the productivity in the renewable sector, imperfect substitution between the two sources of energy, convex extraction costs for mineral resources and pollution from the use of fossil resources.
Q54|The Fossil Energy Interlude: Optimal Building, Maintaining and Scraping a Dedicated Capital, and the Hotelling Rule|It is well known that the price and consumption paths of most nonrenewable resources, including the fossil primary energies, do not follow the paths predicted by the standard Hotelling rule (Krautkraemer,1998, Gaudet, 2007). We develop a model in which a dedicated capital together with the fossil fuel are both required to produce useful energy. Starting from a state of the economy in which the fossil fuel is not yet exploited, we characterize the optimal path of the double transition: The first transition from the initial renewable energy regime to a mixed or full fossil fuel regime and later the second transition from the fossil fuel regime back to a renewable energy regime when the available stock of the fossil fuel becomes more and more rare. We show that, absent any technical progress, the useful energy price must first decrease, next be constant during the phase of maximum expansion of the fossil fuel energy consumption before entering the phase of decreasing use of the fossil energy. Only this third phase of decreasing fossil fuel consumption looks like a standard Hotelling path.
Q54|Social Cost of Carbon under stochastic tipping points: when does risk play a role?|Carbon dioxide emissions impose a social cost on economies, owing to the damages they will cause in the future. In particular, emissions increase global temperature that may reach tipping points in the climate or economic system, triggering large economic shocks. Tipping points are uncertain by nature, they induce higher expected damages but also dispersion of possible damages, that is risk. Both dimensions increase the Social Cost of Carbon (SCC). However, the respective contributions of higher expected damages and risk have not been disentangled. We develop a simple method to compare how much expected damages explain the SCC, compared to the risk induced by a stochastic tipping point. We find that expected damages account for more than 90% of the SCC with productivity shocks lower than 10%, the high end of the range of damages commonly assumed in Integrated Assessment Models. It takes both high productivity shock and high risk aversion for risk to have a significant effect. Our results also shed light on the observation that risk aversion plays a modest role in determining the SCC (the ''risk aversion puzzle''): they suggest that too low levels of damages considered in previous studies could be responsible for the low influence of risk aversion.
Q54|Energy Conversion Rate Improvements, Pollution Abatement Efforts and Energy Mix: The Transition toward the Green Economy under a Pollution Stock constraint|To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a 'pre-ceiling' regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a 'ceiling' regime at the cap, a 'post-ceiling' regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.
Q54|The Social Cost of Carbon and the Ramsey Rule|The objective of this paper is to critically assess the use of simple rules for the social cost of carbon (SCC) that employ a rudimentary form of the Ramsey Rule. Two interrelated caveats apply. First, if climate change poses a serious problem, it is hard to justify an exogenous constant growth rate of consumption and GDP, as is done in several contributions by prominent scholars. Second, to derive the optimal SCC one needs full knowledge of the entire future, in spite of the use of popular ways to try to get around this. Moreover, it is shown that some simple rules suffer from inconsistencies in their derivation.
Q54|Limit pricing, climate policies, and imperfect substitution|The effects of climate policies are often studied under perfect competition and constant marginal extraction costs. In this paper, we allow for monopolistic fossil fuel supply and more general cost functions, which, in the presence of perfectly substitutable renewables, gives rise to limit-pricing behavior. Four phases of supply may exist in equilibrium: sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, simultaneous supply of fossil fuels and renewables at the limit price, and sole supply of renewables at the limit price. The consequences of climate policies for initial extraction depend on the initial phase: in case of sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, a renewables subsidy increases initial extraction, whereas a carbon tax leaves initial extraction unaffected. With simultaneous supply at the limit price or with sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, a renewables subsidy and a carbon tax lower initial extraction. Both policy instruments decrease cumulative extraction. If fossil fuels and renewables are imperfect but good substitutes, the monopolist will exhibit ‘limit-pricing resembling’ behavior, by keeping the effective price of fossil close to that of renewables for considerable time.
Q54|Climate Change Mitigation Through Market-based instruments in Large Asian Emitters|Climate change is responsibility of the economic system like households, firms, and governments that produces Greenhouse Gases (GHG). This paper aims to analyze effectiveness and efficiency of climate change mitigation policies for Japan, China and India that are large Asian emitters through market-based instruments. GTAP-E model is used to analyze the impact of carbon tax policy using their global commitments to reduce carbon emissions. The result shows that carbon tax is best alternative choice for Japan, China, and India to reduce CO2 emissions as a climate change mitigation. The carbon tax provides that in a GDP increase of 0,44% in Japan. But in China and India find that reducing CO2 emission causes GDP is decline around 0,82% for China and 1,98 for India. Thus, all regions can get emission target by cost-effectively and each welfare loss can be compensated by carbon tax revenues. However, carbon tax is not one way fits to climate change mitigation.
Q54|Impacts of China Coal Import Tariff against US on Global Economy and CO2 Emissions|This paper examines the impacts of China coal import tariff against US on global economy and CO2 emissions. Using Global Trade Analysis Project Environmental (GTAP-E) model, coal import tariff was found to generate trade deflection and trade depression phenomena. Then, US and China’s would have welfare loss, but Indonesia and Australia would seem gainers from this tariff war. Furthermore, skilled and unskilled labor will decline in coal’s industry in US and increase in China. Finally, it is also found evidence that China coal import tariff was not good policy because not only the global economy, the environment would be disadvantaged by increasing CO2.
Q54|A General Assessment of Climate Change - Loss of Agricultural Productivity in Indonesia|The changes of frequency and complexity of extreme climate events and in the variability of weather patterns will have significant impacts for stability of agricultural system. Climate change and variability are phenomena of climate anomalies that are of great concern, especially due to the agricultural sector. In Indonesia, in 30 years there have been several extreme conditions which are marked by the frequency of increasingly high climate variability. This paper investigate the impact of climate change on change of value GDP, change of wealth, Government Household Demand, Private Household Demand and real wage in Indonesia by using the dynamic Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model. This study used GTAP 9 with base year 2011. The GTAP database covers 140 regional units and 57 sectors that aggregated into eleven regions and eight sectors. There are three scenarios of climate change used in this paper that were the highest, medium and the lowest. The results shows that both GDP and wealth have a negative impact due to the scenarios. The greater of climate change is, the greater the decrease of values of GDP, Wealth, Market Price, Government Household Demand, Private Household Demand towards the scenarios of climate change in Indonesia are. The results indicate an urgent need to mainstream adaption strategies to lessen the negative impacts of any climate change-induced loss of agricultural productivity in Indonesia.
Q54|Indonesia's Commitment to Reducing GHG and Its Impact on the Indonesian Economy: CGE Approach|To achieve the carbon emission target in Indonesia in 2030, what trade offs will be carried out if viewed from an economic perspective such as GDP, energy consumption? This study employs the CGE model to see the impact of imposing carbon tax on GDP and GHG emissions in Indonesia. Five scenarios have been applied to gauge the linkage between those factors. The main finding in this study is that carbon tax can reduce emissions in large numbers in Indonesia thus that carbon tax can be used as an effective emission control instrument. However, what needs to be concerned is the impact of carbon tax on decreasing GDP. It is different from Singapore where the impact of carbon tax almost does not affect GDP, in Indonesia even though the tax is applied in small amounts but has a significant effect on changes in GDP.
Q54|Formal Education and Disaster Response of Children: Evidence from Coastal Villages in Indonesia|Although children are exposed to a high mortality risk during disasters, what determines their disaster response, especially during earthquakes, remains largely unexplored. The goal of this study is to examine the association between formal education and earthquake response. Using a unique survey collected from elementary school students in the coastal villages of Indonesia, we show that students’ attitude to learning science is positively associated with their risk perception, perceived coping ability, knowledge about the disaster mechanism and response, and propensity to respond appropriately. Parents’ disaster experience also significantly affects these outcomes. In contrast, attitude to religious class explains none of outcomes. Locus of control is associated with perception and knowledge, but not the response. Our findings suggest that the effects of education on the disaster mortality of children could vary with the school curriculum.
Q54|Economic Assessment of Climate Adaptation Options in Myanmar Rice-Based Farming System|Agriculture is highly sensitive to climate change and understandings how the adaptation options improve the farming household’s adaptive capacity are critical to the agricultural policies. The study was carried out for the economic assessment of climate adaption options in rice-based farming system of Myanmar. The propensity score matching approach was applied to explore the existing adaptation options and its contribution on the farm income. In addition, the binary probit model was used to analyse the factors influencing those adaptation decisions. The erratic rainfall, especially dry spell period and unexpected rain during the critical crop growth, was the critical challenge of rice-based farming in the study. The timely operation of farm machineries was one of the major adaptation options for the farmers, followed by other options such as use of more agrochemicals and changing rice varieties including early maturity, high yielding and stress tolerant varieties. The combination of those adaptations gave additional 0.86-0.89 ton/ha yield, 152-158 USD/ha total return and 108-124 USD/ha profit to the adapter farmers. The institutional factors such as irrigation access, access to credit, access to weekly weather information and participation to agricultural training were critically important to the adaptation decision. Moreover, the social capital factors like farming experience, farm size and farm income share were also major influencing variables.
Q54|Modeling and forecasting carbon dioxide emissions in China using Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) models|This research uses annual time series data on CO2 emissions in China from 1960 to 2017, to model and forecast CO2 using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA approach. Diagnostic tests indicate that China CO2 emission data is I (2). The study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further imply that the presented best model is stable and hence acceptable for predicting carbon dioxide emissions in China. The results of the study reveal that CO2 emissions in China are likely to increase and thereby exposing China to a plethora of climate change related challenges. 4 main policy prescriptions have been put forward for consideration by the Chinese government.
Q54|Do Farmers Perceive the Trends of Local Climate Variability Accurately? An Analysis of Farmers’ Perceptions and Meteorological Data in Myanmar|With the existing state of issues related to global climate change, the accuracy of farmers’ perceptions of climate is critically important if they plan to implement appropriate adaptation measures in their farming. This article evaluated if farmers perceive the trends of local climate variability accurately, and was verified by the historical meteorological data analysis. Ordered probit perception models were applied in this study to determine the factors influencing the accuracy of farmer perception. It was observed that farmers’ perceptions of the rainfall amount during the early, mid, and late monsoon periods were highly accurate, and they also accurately perceived summer temperature change, but less accuracy of perception was observed of the temperate changes of the winter and monsoon seasons. Access to weekly weather information, participation in agricultural trainings, farming experience, and education level of the farmer were the major factors determining the accuracy of perception in this study. Based on the empirical results, this study suggested policy implications for (a) the locally specified weather information distribution, and (b) integration of weather information into agricultural training programs, which are available to the farming community to enhance the government implantation of the Myanmar Climate Smart Agriculture Strategy and Myanmar Climate Change Master Plan 2018–2030.
Q54|Effect of Disasters and Climate Change on Poverty and Inequality in India|This study assesses the impact of disasters and climate change on poverty and inequality in India from 1900 to 2018. Country level analysis shows that natural disasters, mainly flood, is increasing over time. Almost 41% of the total deaths in the period 1900–2018 occurred between 1991and 2018 due to natural disasters. Climate change variables show a whopping 545% increase in the CO2 emissions, 7% increase in the mean temperature, and a mammoth 835% increase in annual rainfall from 1960 to 2014. Poverty figures show that there is a 23.4% decline in poverty from 1993–94 to 2011–12. Inequality in India has increased from 0.33 in 1973–74 to 0.36 to 2011–12. The calculated correlation values show that the rate of poverty is negatively associated with CO2 emissions, annual mean temperature, and annual rainfall. A state-level analysis shows that the correlation between rainfall and inequality is positive. Statewise panel data model analysis from the period of 2004–05 to 2011–12 shows that natural disasters and climate change, which are measured by the change in rainfall, has a positive effect on state-level poverty and inequality in India. Finally, we suggest that eco-friendly economic growth strategies and redistributive policies are essential for sustainable economic growth in India.
Q54|Weather and children’s time allocation|This paper presents the first causal estimates of the effect of weather on children’s time allocation. It exploits exogenous variations in local weather observed during the random diary dates of two nationally representative cohorts of Australian children whose time-use diaries were surveyed biennially over 10 years. Unfavourable weather conditions, as represented by cold or hot temperature or rain, cause children to switch activities from outdoors to indoors, mainly by reducing the time allocated to active pursuits and travel and increasing the time allocated to media. Furthermore, the effects of bad weather are more pronounced on weekends and heterogeneous across different sub-groups. Our results also provide some evidence of adaptation, as temperature tends to have greater impact not only in winter months but also in colder regions. Overall, the results suggest that extreme weather conditions may diminish children’s development and long-term achievements through their effects on children’s time allocation.
Q54|Fridays for Future meets the Hotelling rule: some thoughts on decarbonization policies|The Hotelling rule is applied to the case of a fixed CO2 budget restriction which has to be met in order to reach the global warming goal according to the Paris Agreement. While the theoretical result is well-known and simple, the practical implementation under technological uncertainty suggests that tradable emission certificates are superior to CO2 taxes. The practical implementaion has also to consider that production chains are globalized, and that decarbonization strategies will be pointless if the Global South is not part of it.
Q54|Behavioral Impact of Disaster Education: Evidence from a Dance-Based Program in Indonesia|Despite its potential role in reducing disaster mortality, the rigorous evaluation of the impact of disaster education on children’s disaster responses, such as evacuation behavior, is scarce. This study examines the impact of a newly introduced Indonesian program on students’ earthquake response. The program is carefully designed based on psychological theories and anecdotal lessons from different countries. It is also easy to understand and cost-effective. Exploiting the fact that the treatment schools for the pilot program were selected based on two observable criteria, we employ the propensity score weighting estimation. The results show positive effects on perception regarding students’ ability to cope with disaster risk and likelihood of taking appropriate response during an earthquake. The participants are also more likely to self-learn and have higher knowledge of disaster risks. Furthermore, there exists a significant effect on earthquake response even among students with poor learning attitude at school. This feature is preferable for disaster education in developing countries, as those residing in disaster-vulnerable areas tend to have poor educational background.
Q54|Evaluating policy instruments for the conservation of biodiversity in a changing climate|Climate change is a key threat for biodiversity. In order to mitigate this threat, ecologists suggest two conservation strategies: (1) enabling a species’ migration towards areas that will become suitable for the species as climatic conditions change and (2) creating climate refugia in which the species may persist even if the surrounding landscape is no longer climatically ideal. The policy instruments that could be used to implement these conservation strategies have so far not been evaluated comprehensively from an economic perspective. We develop a conceptual evaluation framework with the criteria ecological effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and dynamic incentives, which are criteria commonly applied in the economic analysis of environmental policy instruments. For each criterion, we develop of a set of specific evaluation criteria to assess policy instruments for species conservation under climate change. We apply the framework by conducting a conceptual analysis of three types of policy instruments – land purchases, offsets and conservation payments. A key finding of our analysis is that the degree to which a policy instrument is appropriate for species conservation depends strongly on the conservation strategy chosen.
Q54|Natural disasters and economic growth in Africa|The continent of Africa has experienced its fair share of natural disasters historically and in contemporary times. The effect of natural disasters on economic growth has generated useful but inconclusive debates in the literature. Different studies have found positive, negative or no significant effects at all in some cases of disasters on growth. This makes the question of what impacts natural disasters have on an economy’s growth a purely empirical one and more meaningful to be examined on a case by case basis. Using panel data solely for the continent of Africa from 1980-2015, our regression results show a significant negative effect of natural disasters on economic growth, growth in agricultural value-added and growth in industrial value-added. Additionally, our results also show that disaster effect appears and persists in the post-year periods. The negative relationship between economic growth and disasters is also robust to different disaster measures. We recommend the need to invest in the modernization of the agricultural sector in Africa with the goal of withstanding the negative effects of natural disasters.
Q54|Homo Oeconomicus im Treibhaus Erde: Umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aus polit-ökonomischer Perspektive|"This paper draws attention to three challenges for environmental policy that are rather neglected and only rudimentary addressed in the current discourse on the topic of climate protection and environmental protection. Section 2 discusses how ""fake news"" poses a problem for environmental policy. Section 3 addresses the question of how to deal with the existing ""knowing-doing gaps"" in some environmental policy contexts. Finally, Section 4 highlights the difficulties of a global and fair environmental policy. These challenges are considered from a politico-economic perspective, more specifically, through the lens of Public Choice Theory/New Political Economy."
Q54|How Does Climate Change Affect Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy?|Ongoing climate change aﬀects complex and long-lived infrastructures like electricity systems. Particularly for decarbonized electricity systems based on variable renewable energies, there is a variety of impact mechanisms working diﬀerently in size and direction. Main impacts for Europe include changes in wind and solar resources, hydro power, cooling water availability for thermoelectric generation and electricity demand. Hence, it is not only important to understand the total eﬀects, i.e., how much welfare may be gained when accounting for climate change impacts in all dimensions, but also to disentangle various eﬀects in terms of their marginal contribution to the potential welfare loss. This paper applies a two-stage modeling framework to assess RCP8.5 climate change impacts on the European electricity system. Thereby, the performance of two electricity system design strategies – one based on no anticipation of climate change and one anticipating impacts of climate change – is studied under a variety of climate change impacts. Impacts on wind and solar resources are found to cause the largest system eﬀects in 2100. Combined climate change impacts increase system costs of a system designed without climate change anticipation due to increased fuel and carbon permit costs. Applying a system design strategy with climate change anticipation increases the cost-optimal share of variable renewable energy based on additional wind oﬀshore capacity in 2100, at a reduction in nuclear, wind onshore and solar PV capacity. Compared to a no anticipation strategy, total system costs are reduced.
Q54|The Reformed EU ETS - Intertemporal Emission Trading with Restricted Banking|With the increase of the linear reduction factor (LRF), the implementation of the market stability reserve (MSR) and the introduction of the cancellation mechanism (CM), the EU ETS changed fundamentally. We develop a discrete time model of the intertemporal allowance market that accurately depicts these reforms assuming that prices develop with the Hotelling rule as long as the TNAC is non-empty. A sensitivity analysis ensures the robustness of the model results regarding its input parameters. The accurate modelling of the EU ETS allows for a decomposition of the eﬀects of the individual amendments and the evaluation of the dynamic eﬃciency. The MSR shifts emissions to the future but is allowance preserving. The CM reduces the overall emission cap, increasing allowance prices in the long run, but does not signiﬁcantly impact the emission and price path in the short run. The increased LRF leads with 9 billion cancelled allowances to a stronger reduction than the CM and is therefore the main price driver of the reform.
Q54|Hurricanes, Climate Change Policies and Electoral Accountability|This paper studies how politicians and voters respond to new information on the threats of climate change. Using data on the universe of federal disaster declarations between 1989 and 2014, we document that congress members from districts hit by a hurricane are more likely to support bills promoting more environmental regulation and control in the year after the disaster. The response to hurricanes does not seem to be driven by logrolling behavior or lobbysts’ pressure. The change in legislative agenda is persistent over time, and it is associated with an electoral penalty in the following elections. The response is mainly promoted by representatives in safe districts, those with more experience, and those with strong pro-environment records. Our evidence thus reveals that natural disasters may trigger a permanent change in politicians’ beliefs, but only those with a sufficient electoral strength or with strong ideologies are willing to engage in promoting policies with short-run costs and long-run benefits.
Q54|Revisiting Allen's nitrogen hyphotesis from a climate perspective (1645-1740)|Building on Allen’s Nytrogen Hypothesis, this paper assesses the role of climate change in the English Agricultural Revolution. Our results show that, while Nitrogen-fixing plants, better cultivation and improved seeds explain half of the variation in yields, the changing climatic conditions characterizing the cooling period (1645-1715) and the subsequent warmer phase account for the remaining variation. Given that the colder and more humid climate existing during the second half of the 17th-century and early 18th-century negatively affected yields, farmers’ efforts during this period were even higher than what it is implied by the observed yields. Increasing temperatures in the next phase (starting c.1715), however, had a positive effect on agricultural productivity, so the role of the farmers in this stage has been previously over-rated.
Q54|Life cycle assessment of grain maize production in different soil tillage systems|"Crop production induces emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and other harmful substances to the environment. In view of the environmental protection, it is essential to find solutions for reducing the negative impacts of crop cultivation. Currently, no-tillage systems are becoming more and more popular in grain maize production due to their economic and environmental benefits. The aim of the study was to assess the environmental impact of grain maize production in different soil tillage systems. The study was conducted in 20 farms, located in the Wielkopolska voivodship (Poland), during the period 2015-2017. The cultivation of grain maize in three soil tillage systems: traditional tillage, reduced tillage and direct sowing was analyzed. Data included field characteristics, type and duration of technological operations and agricultural production inputs: seeds, fertilizers, plant protection products, fuel, engine fuel, lubricants, agricultural machinery. Assessment was performed according to the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. LCA was carried out from ""cradle-to farm gate"", i.e. from the manufacturing of means of production through to the process of crop cultivation and harvesting. Results analysis have been referenced to functional unit of 1 ha of grain maize cultivation. The following impact category indicators have been calculated: the global warming potential, the eutrophication potential, the acidification potential, the photochemical ozone creation potential and the abiotic resources depletion potential. The carbon sequestration potential associated with maize cultivation in each tillage system was estimated. The values of impact category indicators, especially in the case of global warming potential, acidification potential and eutrophication potential depended mainly on fertilization. GHG emissions from processes of soil cultivation and sowing of grain maize were largest in traditional tillage mainly due to larger fuel consumption and use of agricultural machinery in comparison to reduced tillage and direct sowing. In grain maize cultivation, carbon inputs to soil from the applied natural fertilizers and plant residues ploughed in lead to increased soil carbon sequestration and contribute to reductions in GHG emissions.The study was carried out in the frame of the research project funded by the National Science Centre, Poland. Project No. 2015/19/N/HS4/03031. Project tittle: Environmental life cycle assessment and life cycle costing of grain crop production in different soil tillage systems."
Q54|The Impact of Climate Change on Internal Migration in Brazil|Business-as-usual climate-change forecasts point to sharp temperature rises and agriculture yield losses in Brazil. We study the impact of these changes on internal migration and population distribution. We employ a spatial equilibrium model in which the climate shapes workers' locational choices through the usual amenity-value channel and the novel indirect channel via agriculture wages. Our simulations reveal that migration rates are 5.9% higher, and that half million more people migrate inter regionally under future climate conditions. Furthermore, climate change will likely exacerbate the country's regional inequalities, as the most developed regions gain population and welfare while the least developed regions lose.
Q54|Climate and Weather Impacts on Agriculture: The Case of Brazil|The worldâ€™s population will rise exponentially in the coming decades, increasing the demand for food and challenging the agricultural sector to ensure food security. Due to the importance of climate conditions for agriculture, this article analyzed two different hypotheses regarding climate impacts on agricultural markets in Brazil. First, farmers only observe the average climate conditions of their region when deciding the type and amount of crop or animal to grow or raise. Second, weather diversions from normal climate conditions cause farmers to deviate from optimal profits. Neither hypothesis was rejected by the data. The 2006 estimated loss from rainfall anomalies was 12.8 billion dollars (in 2014 values).
Q54|Vehicle-to-Grid. Impacts on the electricity market and consumer cost of electric vehicles|Higher battery storage capacity in electric vehicles (EV) can potentially serve two purposes: First, the larger the capacity, the less need for inconvenient recharging during long trips. Second, the larger the capacity, the larger the potential gains from vehicle-to-grid (V2G) electricity supply during peak prices or during periods of imbalance. We present an analytical model for the intertwinement of the consumers’ choice of battery capacity and the potential for supplying power to the electricity market. We show that V2G increases the consumers’ choice of battery capacity, and it may reduce the cost of owning an EV vis-à-vis a traditional car. Furthermore, V2G alleviates the capacity pressure on peak hours, and thereby reduces the need for investment in backup power, saving social costs. Based on a future scenario for the Belgian electricity market, we provide a numerical illustration indicating that the savings may be substantial.
Q54|Public acceptance and willingness to pay cost-effective taxes on red meat and road traffic in Norway|The Norwegian high-level Green Tax Commission proposes inter alia cost-effective taxes on red meat and increased toll charges on road traffic to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and local air pollution, respectively. Implementation requires support by the public, but the acceptance of such taxes is not known. We have conducted a national survey of the public's acceptance of the two taxes. The survey instrument showed dynamically the reduction in emissions/pollution for each tax level. Despite survey information about the purpose of the taxes, only 25 percent, on average, were in favour of their introduction, the rest did not know, had zero willingness to pay, or opposed the tax. In this respect, preferences for the two taxes are similar. However, on average people are willing to pay approximately 90 percent of the optimal tax for red meat, but only about 25-35 percent of toll charges on road traffic depending on fuel type. Earmarking the tax revenue for environmentally friendly technology increased acceptable tax level, but only for red meat. Earmarking tax revenues for reduced income tax did not increase the acceptable tax level.
Q54|Trade-offs between carbon sequestration, landscape aesthetics and biodiversity in a cost-benefit analysis of land use options in Norway|Norway is considering a national afforestation program for greenhouse gas (GHG) sequestration on recently abandoned semi-natural pastureland. However, the program may have negative impacts on landscape aesthetics and biodiversity. We conducted a national choice experiment survey to estimate non-market benefits of the afforestation program, compared to an alternative program of recovering pastures and the status quo of natural reforestation. Combining the preference data with secondary data on costs, we derive the social net return on land use alternatives. We find that restoring half of the abandoned pastures for grazing yields the highest net present value. Rural households closer to abandoned pastures are the largest beneficiaries of this policy due to the value they place on pastures and their disutility of natural reforestation. Their willingness to pay (WTP) for recovering pastures is more than three times that of urban households, while non-use values derived from carbon sequestration and biodiversity seem more constant across space. The net present value of all land use alternatives are still positive when limiting the aggregation of WTP to rural households, and when allowing for the presence of substantial hypothetical bias in benefit estimates and for cost increases. Results indicate that landscape and biodiversity values are substantial and should be considered when designing agricultural and climate policies.
Q54|Economic and environmental impacts of UK offshore wind development to 2029: the importance of local content|The continuing development of the offshore wind sector is an important element of UK energy and industrial policy since it holds the potential of substantial emissions reductions while simultaneously boosting economic activity. A central idea here is that the economic impact of the offshore wind sector can be enhanced by increasing the local content of its inputs. We explore, through simulation of a purpose-built Input-Output model of the UK, the economic and emissions impacts of the likely future development of the UKâ€™s offshore wind sector, with a particular emphasis on the importance of local content. We explore six scenarios all of which embed the capacity expansion anticipated by the Sector Deal, but differ in terms of local content â€“ including a set of illustrative simulations considering the possible impact of Brexit on local content. We find that future offshore wind development does indeed generate a â€œdouble dividendâ€ in the form of simultaneous and substantial reductions in emissions and improvements in economic activity. It is also the case that, as anticipated, the scale of the economic stimulus arising from offshore wind development is directly and strongly related to the extent of local content.
Q54|A social cost of carbon for (almost) every country|This paper uses imputed national climate change impact functions to estimate national social costs of carbon, which are largest in poor countries with large populations. The national social costs of carbon of faster growing economies are less sensitive to the pure rate of time preference and more sensitive to the rate of risk aversion. The pattern of national social costs of carbon is not sensitive to the assumed impact function, climate sensitivity, and scenario, although the global social cost of carbon is. Income convergence raises the national social costs of carbon of poorer countries, and lowers them for richer countries. Both global and national social costs of carbon are most sensitive to the income elasticity of climate change impacts.
Q54|The elusive consensus on climate change|Thirteen studies quantify the agreement that climate change is real and human-made. Consensus is at odds with the scientific method and irrelevant for policy. Respondents with little relevant expertise and papers on loosely related subjects dominate the studies. Data are analyzed with insufficient care, and samples arbitrarily restricted. Combining estimates from different studies, 89% agree that human activity significantly affected climate after 1750, and 80% that humans were the most important driver of climate change. 97% agree that human activity was the most important factor in climate change since 1950, but only 80% that anthropogenic greenhouse gases were.
Q54|The Assignment of a CSR Level of Action: Rule vs Discretion|Socially responsible behaviors represent a growing concern for consumers, employees, investors. Beyond their economic impact, companies are made accountable and responsible for the social, the environmental incidence of their activities. Their governance, their processes, the security of their products and the working conditions they offer are more and more carefully examined (as, for instance, the increasing importance of the duty of vigilance for multinational enterprises). Public policies, especially through regulation, seek to avoid - or at least limit some of the negative impacts that can be related to firms' activity and choices. Yet, many drawbacks may prevent regulation from succeeding : lack of information or of expertise, capture by interest groups... In some cases, companies can even turn more efficient in making the decisions that better suit stakeholders' expectations, essentially as they may have better information about their preferences, which is an essential piece. As a by-product it is worth examining whether some decisions must be taken by regulators or should rather be delegated to firms. Through a mechanism without transfer approach in a setting involving information asymmetries, we study under which conditions the decision is best assigned to the regulator. We show that for relatively low values of the private parameter, a binding rule will be preferred, and it is even stronger when asymmetry of information is introduced w.r.t. the knowledge the firm will get from the representative stakeholder. The divergence between the decision-maker and the firm strengthens and less communication takes place, which corresponds to a lower degree of delegation granted to companies. Thus, the optimal scheme is made of a combination of a rigid policy and a more flexible one over signicant values of the private parameter.
Q54|Agricultural Drought Impacts on Crops Sector and Adaptation Options in Mali: a Macroeconomic Computable General Equilibrium Analysis|In Mali’s current context where the crops sector is particularly exposed and vulnerable to agricultural drought, this study assesses the economy-wide impacts of such events and the potential effectiveness of some adaptation strategies. Using a dynamic computable general equilibrium model, we conduct counterfactual simulations of various scenarios accounting for different levels of intensity and frequency of droughts over a 15-year period. We first show how mild, moderate, and intense droughts currently experienced by the country affect its economic performances and considerably degrade its households’ welfare. We also show how these negative impacts could be aggravated in the future by the likely increased number of intense droughts threatened by global climate change. However, we finally show that there appears to be some room for Mali to manoeuvre in terms of drought-risk management policies, such as fostering the use of drought-tolerant crop varieties, improving drought early warning systems or extending irrigation capacities.
Q54|Managing the Impact of Climate on Migration: Evidence from Mexico|This paper uses state-level data on migration flows between Mexico and the U.S. from 1999 to 2011 to investigate the migration response to climate shocks and the mitigating impact of an agricultural cash-transfer program (PROCAMPO) and a disaster fund (Fonden). While lower than average precipitations increase undocumented migration, especially from the most agricultural states, Fonden amounts decrease the undocumented migration response to abnormally low precipitations during the dry season. Changes equalizing the distribution of PROCAMPO and favoring vulnerable producers in the non irrigated ejido sector mitigate the impact of droughts on migration, especially for a high initial level of inequality.
Q54|Environmental Policy Instrument Choice and International Trade|We develop a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model to understand how environmental policy instrument choice affects trade. We extend the existing literature by employing an open economy model to evaluate three environmental policy instruments: cap-and-trade, pollution taxes, and an emissions intensity standard in the face of two types of exogenous shocks. We calibrate the model to Canadian data and simulate productivity and import price shocks. We evaluate the evolution of key macroeconomic variables, including the trade balance in response to the shocks under each policy instrument. Our findings for the evolution of output and emissions under a productivity shock are consistent with previous closed economy models. Our open economy framework allows us to find that a cap-and-trade policy dampens the international trade effects of the business cycle relative to an emissions tax or intensity standard. Under an import shock, pollution taxes and intensity targets are as effective as cap-and-trade policies in reducing variance in consumption and employment. The cap-and-trade policy limits the intensity of the import competition shock suggesting that particular policy instrument might serve as a barrier to trade.
Q54|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
Q54|Energy Conversion Rate Improvements, Pollution Abatement Efforts and Energy Mix: The Transition toward the Green Economy under a Pollution Stock Constraint|To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a ’pre-ceiling’ regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a ’ceiling’ regime at the cap, a ’post-ceiling’ regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a ’pre-ceiling’ regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a ’ceiling’ regime at the cap, a ’post-ceiling’ regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.
Q54|Reexamining the growth effects of ENSO: the role of local weather conditions|This paper examines the growth effects of ENSO events through their interactions with local weather conditions using the Standardized Precipitation and Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) from 1975 to 2014 and over a sample of 74 countries. The inclusion of SPEI in panel estimation makes it possible to control for time-varying country-specific effects of ENSO events, therefore outlining their heterogeneous effects on growth and eliminating a potential source of omitted variable bias. By better identifying the persistence of ENSO effects on local weather conditions, we evidence that ENSO events generate heterogeneous and local effects depending not only on countries' climate regime but also on their weather patterns. Our results suggest that examining the growth effects of ENSO events should thus explicitly account for their interaction with weather patterns to capture more precisely the heterogeneity across countries.
Q54|Beyond RCP8.5: Marginal Mitigation Using Quasi-Representative Concentration Pathways|Assessments of decreases in economic damages from climate change mitigation typically rely on climate output from computationally expensive precomputed runs of general circulation models (GCMs) under a handful of scenarios with discretely varying targets, such as the four representative concentration pathways (RCPs) for CO2 and other anthropogenically emitted gases. Although such analyses are extremely valuable in informing scientists and policymakers about specific, well-known, and massive mitigation goals, we add to the literature by considering potential outcomes from more modest policy changes that may not be represented by any concentration pathway or GCM output. We construct computationally efficient Quasi-representative Concentration Pathways (QCPs) in order to leverage existing scenarios featuring plausible concentration pathways. Computational efficiency allows for common statistical methods for assessing model uncertainty based on iterative replication, such as bootstrapping. We illustrate by feeding two QCPs through a computationally efficient statistical emulator and dose response functions extrapolated from estimates in the recent literature in order to gauge effects of mitigation on the relative risk of heat stress mortality.
Q54|Time-Varying Cointegration and the Kalman Filter|We show that time-varying parameter state-space models estimated using the Kalman filter are particularly vulnerable to the problem of spurious regression, because the integrated error is transferred to the estimated state equation. We offer a simple yet effective methodology to reliably recover the instability in cointegrating vectors. In the process, the proposed methodology successfully distinguishes between the cases of no cointegration, fixed cointegration, and time-varying cointegration. We apply these proposed tests to elucidate the relationship between concentrations of greenhouse gases and global temperatures, an important relationship to both climate scientists and economists.
Q54|Cross-Border Financial Effects of Global Warming In a Two-Area Ecological SFC Model|We develop an ecological open-economy SFC model that enables testing cross-area interactions among productive sectors, financial markets and the ecosystem. We show that the unequal technical progress across areas, coupled with rising ecological awareness, can force governments of less ecologically efficient areas to move further away from low-carbon assets. We argue that ‘green’ monetary and fiscal policies can be used to tackle climate change and financial instability. However, their effectiveness depends crucially on the impact of cross-border financial flows and growth rate differentials on exchange rates. Without a cross-area policy coordination plan, currency fluctuations can bring about unintended consequences, undermining green policies’ effects.
Q54|Fire takes no vacation: impact of fires on tourism|Many Mediterranean-type climates around the world will face increased risks of wildfires as a consequence of climate change. In this study we consider the case of Portugal and estimate the impact of the increasing risk of forest fires on tourism. Using data for 278 municipalities for the 2000-2016 period we find a considerable negative impact of burned areas on the number of tourist arrivals, both domestic and inbound. We go beyond the traditional impact analysis and provide predictions for 2030 and 2050. The estimated costs to the Portuguese economy due to the impact of burned areas in 2030 range between 17.03 and 24.18 million Euros for domestic tourist arrivals and between 18.26 and 38.08 million Euros for inbound ones. In 2050, those costs will increase at least fourfold. These findings underscore the importance of taking the forest fire risks into account when planning local investments. JEL codes: L83, O13, Q54, Q56
Q54|Global Unanimity Agreement on the Carbon Budget|Carbon budgets are a useful way to frame the climate mitigation challenge and much easier to agree upon than the allocation of emissions. We propose a mechanism with countries agreeing on the global carbon budget, while the decision to emit is decentralized at the country level. The revenue is collected in a global fund and allocated according to endogenously defined 10 weights proportional to the marginal cost of climate change. The proposal features a unanimous agreement of the national citizenries of the world and global Pareto efficiency. We run a simulation in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, with zero emissions after 2055. At the Global Unanimity Equilibrium, permits are priced at 90$/tC, yielding 1.3 trillion dollars annually. Africa, India and the less developed countries in Asia are the only net recipients, while the US 15 and China are the largest net contributors.
Q54|Crop and Conflict: exploring the impact of Inequalityin Agricultural Production on Conflict Risk|Recent attempts to find a robust empirical correlation between climate variability, crop production and civil conflict risk have been quite inconclusive. In this paper, we argue that the ambiguity in empirical findings may be partly due to a general tendency to treat agricultural production in absolute terms, while neglecting the importance of the relative deprivation triggered by unequal distribution in crop yields across locations and between groups. To test this hypothesis, we rely on high-resolution global gridded data on the local yield of four main crops for the period 1981-2017, and calculate the level of inequality in crop production by means of a Gini index using the grid-cell information on yearly crop yields both at the country level and between identity based groups (regional and ethnic). In addition, for each level of spatial disaggregation, we compute the Gini coefficient using information on crop production from rural grid-cells only. Our results reveal a strong and robust association between crop inequality and the probability of conflict outbreak. This effect is particularly pronounced in the case of inequality among rural areas. Climatic variability, on the other hand, is shown not to increase significantly the destabilizing effect of crop inequality. We also find that akin ethnic competition and discrimination along ethnic lines represent good predictors of conflict outbreak, especially in the case of ethnic conflicts, and when the between-group inequality in crop production is calculated along ethnic boundaries.
Q54|Climate Change: Personal Responsibility and Energy Saving|We study at the individual level the connection between actions meant to reduce energy use and beliefs about personal responsibility on climate change mitigation. In addition, we also examine the role of human values and cross-country differences in shaping beliefs and behaviours. Using data from 23 (mostly) European countries, we find large heterogeneity in both beliefs and values, with richer countries being more likely to exhibit more concern about the environment. Personal responsibility and actual energy saving are positively correlated, but the correlation is not high. As regards human values, self-transcendence and openness are positively correlated with responsibility, while self-enhancement and conservation are negatively correlated. Values are instead not as correlated with energy saving, since we find only a positive correlation with conservation and a negative correlation with self-enhancement.
Q54|Who cares? Future sea-level-rise and house prices|Globally, the single-most observable, predictable, and certain impact of climate change is sea level rise. Using a case study from the Kapiti Coast District in New Zealand, we pose a simple question: Do people factor in the warnings provided by scientists and governments about the risk of sea-level rise when making their investment decisions? We examine the single most important financial decision that most people make – purchasing a home, to see whether prices of coastal property change when more/less information becomes available about property-specific consequences of future sea level rise. The Kapiti Coast District Council published detailed projected erosion risk maps for the district’s coastline in 2012 and was forced to remove them by the courts in 2014. About 1,800 properties were affected. We estimate the impact of this information on home prices using data from all real estate transactions in the district with a difference-in-differences framework embedded in a hedonic pricing model. We find that the posting of this information had a very small and statistically insignificant impact on house prices, suggesting people do not care much about the long-term risks of sea-level rise as they do not incorporate these risks in their investment decisions.
Q54|Impact of the Saitama Prefecture Target-Setting Emissions Trading Program on the Adoption of Low-Carbon Technology|This paper investigates the impacts of the Target-Setting Emissions Trading (TSET) Program launched by Saitama Prefecture in Japan in 2011 on the adoption of low-carbon technology. Using facility-level data on the manufacturing sector, the causal relationship between implementation of the program and investment in high-efficiency equipment is estimated. The results show that the TSET Program promoted the adoption of high-efficiency machines and devices for the first three years of the second compliance period, whereas the program did not spur investments in high-efficiency equipment during the first compliance period. These results suggest that the manufacturing facilities may have adopted relatively cheaper emissions reduction plans in the first compliance period such as improvements to equipment they already owned, whereas in the second compliance period, when the emissions targets became stricter, they allocated money and resources to introduce high-efficiency equipment. These findings indicate that the TSET Program succeeded in encouraging emissions reduction efforts by facilities in the manufacturing sector covered by the scheme, even though the program lacks penalties for noncompliance.
Q54|Climate Risk and Beliefs: Evidence from New York Floodplains|Applying a difference-in-differences framework to a census of residential property transactions in New York City 2003-2017, we estimate the price effects of three flood risk signals: 1) the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act, which increased premiums; 2) Hurricane Sandy; and 3) new floodplain maps reflecting three decades of climate change. Estimates are negative for all three signals and some are large: properties included in the new floodplain after escaping flooding by Sandy experienced 18 percent price reductions. We investigate possible mechanisms, including selection of properties into the market and residential sorting. Finding no evidence for these, we develop a parsimonious theoretical model to study changes in flood beliefs. The model allows decomposition of our reduced-form estimates into the effects of insurance premium changes and belief updating. Results suggest that the new maps induced substantially larger belief changes than insurance reform.
Q54|Heat Stress: Ambient Temperature and Workplace Accidents in the US|Combining records for 71,225 severe accidents from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration with a panel of county-level weather data for 1990 to 2010, we find that heat shocks significantly increase accident rates across the United States, while cold shocks significantly reduce them. We find that heat shocks increase accidents both in plausibly temperature-sensitive industries, like construction and agriculture, and among industries that are not obviously sensitive to weather. While we find suggestive evidence of short-term adaptation to heat shocks over summer months, we find no evidence that the impacts of heat shocks have fallen over our 21-year panel.
Q54|Money Growing on Trees: A Classroom Game about Payments for Ecosystem Services and Tropical Deforestation|Payments for ecosystem service programs use a market-based approach to pursue environmental goals. While they are common policy tools, key concepts that can determine their efficacy are nuanced and hard to grasp. We present a new interactive game that explores the functioning and implications of payments for ecosystem service programs. Participants play the role of rural households in a developing country. They decide individually or as groups whether to enter into contracts to receive payment from the United Nations REDD+ program to refrain from harvesting from a local forest. The game explores topics including: payments for ecosystem services programs; climate change; tropical deforestation; cost-effectiveness; additionality; contract fraud and enforcement; and community resource management. We provide customizable materials, a detailed reading list, and prompts for discussion.
Q54|The Sun’s Wrath: Economic Effects of Solar Activity|We provide empirical evidence on the negative relationship between intense solar activity and GDP in OECD countries. Among the different sectors, we find that the information and communication sector is the most adversely affected by space weather.
Q54|Effective Climate Policy Doesn’t Have to be Expensive| We compare the effectiveness of different climate policies in terms of emissions abatement and costs in the British and German electricity markets. The two countries follow different climate policies, allowing us to compare the effectiveness of a relatively low EU ETS carbon price in Germany with a significantly higher carbon price due to a unilateral top-up tax (the Carbon Price Support) in the UK. We first estimate the emissions offsetting effects of carbon pricing and of subsidized wind and solar feed-in, and then derive the abatement costs of one tonne of CO2 for the different policies. We find that a reasonably high price for emissions is the most cost-effective climate policy, while subsidizing wind is preferable to subsidizing solar power. A carbon price of around EURO 35 is enough in the UK to induce vast short-run fuel switching between coal- and gas-fired power plants, leading to significant emissions abatement at low costs.
Q54|Energy Transition with Variable and Intermittent Renewable Electricity Generation|We propose one of the first dynamic models of the optimal transition from fossil fuels to renewables in electricity generation that takes into account the variability and intermittency of renewable energy as well as storage. This work sheds light on the extent to which variability and intermittency constitute a serious obstacle to energy transition and, given these constraints, the value of storage. The results of this model provide useful insight into the complexity of transitioning to a clean energy mix, as well as the role climate policy can play in facilitating both the growth of renewables and storage.
Q54|Natural disasters and regional development – the case of earthquakes|We analyze the impact of earthquakes on nighttime lights at a sub-national level, i.e. on grids of different size. We argue that existing studies on the impact of natural disasters on economic development have several important limitations, both at the level of the outcome variable – usually national income or growth – as well as on the level of the independent variable, e.g. the timing of an event and the measuring of its intensity. We aim to overcome these limitations by using geophysical event data on earthquakes together with satellite nighttime lights. Using panel fixed effects regressions covering the entire world for the period 1992-2013 we find that earthquakes reduce both light growth rates and light levels significantly. The effects are persistent for approximately 5 years, but we find no long run effects. The effects are strong and robust in a small grid and gets weaker the larger the unit of observation. National institutions and economic conditions are relevant mediating factors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q54|The Dynamics of Linking Permit Markets|We present a novel benefit of linking emission permit markets. We consider a dynamic setting, and let the countries issue permits non-cooperatively. With exogenous technology levels, there are only gains from permit trade if countries are different. With endogenous technology, however, we show that there are gains from trade even if countries are identical. In this case, linking the permit markets of different countries will turn permit issuance into intertemporal strategic complements: If one country issues fewer permits today, other countries will respond by issuing fewer permits in the future. This happens because issuing fewer permits today increases current investments in green energy capacity in all permit market countries, and countries with a higher green energy capacity will respond by issuing fewer permits in the future. Hence, each country faces incentives to withhold emission permits. Even though countries cannot commit to reducing their own emission, or punish other countries that do not, the outcome is reduced emissions, higher investments, and increased welfare, compared to a benchmark with only domestic permit trade. The more frequently participating countries reset their caps, the higher the gain from linking permit markers.
Q54|CO2 embedded in trade: trends and fossil fuel drivers|The amount of CO2 embedded in trade has substantially increased since 1990. We study the trends and some drivers over the period 1995-2009. We find that traded goods tend to have higher emission-intensities compared to average final demand. The second finding is that independently of sector structure, dirty countries tend to specialize in emissionintensive sectors. This finding suggests a comparative advantage mechanism for CO2 and lends support to the hypothesis that trade liberalization tends to increase global emissions. The third finding is that, on average, emission-intensive countries have shifted from trade deficits to surpluses, so a larger share of goods is now produced in emission-intensive countries, consequently increasing global emissions. Finally, our analysis points to coal abundance as an important driver for high levels of both domestic emissions per value added and Sector specialization into emission-intensive sectors. Hence coal abundance is an important driver of net CO2 exports.
Q54|The risk-adjusted carbon price|We use perturbation methods to derive a rule for the optimal risk-adjusted social cost of carbon (SCC) that incorporates the effects of uncertainties associated with climate and the economy from a calibrated DSGE model. We allow for different aversions to risk and intertemporal fluctuations, convex damages, uncertainties in economic growth, atmospheric carbon, climate sensitivity and damages, their correlations, and distributions that are skewed in the longer run to capture long-run climate feedbacks. Our non-certainty-equivalent rule for the SCC incorporates precaution, risk insurance, and climate sensitivity and damage rate hedging effects to deal with future economic and climatic and damage risks.
Q54|Who cares? Future sea-level-rise and house prices| Globally, the single-most observable, predictable, and certain impact of climate change is sea level rise. Using a case study from the Kapiti Coast District in New Zealand, we pose a simple question: Do people factor in the warnings provided by scientists and governments about the risk of sea-level rise when making their investment decisions? We examine the single most important financial decision that most people make â€“ purchasing a home, to see whether prices of coastal property change when more/less information becomes available about property-specific consequences of future sea level rise. The Kapiti Coast District Council published detailed projected erosion risk maps for the districtâ€™s coastline in 2012 and was forced to remove them by the courts in 2014. About 1,800 properties were affected. We estimate the impact of this information on home prices using data from all real estate transactions in the district with a difference-in-differences framework embedded in a hedonic pricing model. We find that the posting of this information had a very small and statistically insignificant impact on house prices, suggesting people do not care much about the long-term risks of sea-level rise as they do not incorporate these risks in their investment decisions.
Q54|Think global, act local! A mechanism for global commons and mobile firms|It is tricky to design local regulations on global externalities, especially so if firms are mobile. We show that when costs and outside options are firms’ private information, the threat of firm relocation leads to local regulations that are stricter, not looser. This result is general and follows because policy-driven information rents act as targeted compensations to firms that can efficiently limit the externality. The optimal mechanism supplements this strict local regulation with a looser opt-in scheme, creating a global cap for externalities for a subset of firms. We illustrate the magnitude of these effects by providing a quantification of the optimal mechanism for the key sectors in the EU emissions trading system.
Q54|The social cost of carbon and inequality: when local redistribution shapes global carbon prices|The social cost of carbon is the central economic measure for aggregate climate change damages and functions as a metric for optimal carbon prices. Previous literature shows that inequality significantly influences the level of the social cost of carbon, but mostly neglects a major source of inequality - heterogeneity in income below the national level. We characterize the relationship between climate and redistributional policy in an optimal taxation model that explicitly accounts for inequality between and within countries. In particular, we demonstrate that climate and distributional policy cannot be separated when national governments fail to compensate low-income households for climate change damages: Even if only one country does not compensate especially affected households, the social cost of carbon increases globally. Further, we use numerical methods to estimate the scope of these effects. Our results suggest that it is crucial to correct previous estimates of the social cost of carbon for national distributional policies.
Q54|Droughts and farms' financial performance in New Zealand: a micro farm-level study|We quantify the impacts of droughts in New Zealand on the profitability of dairy, and sheep and beef farms. Using a comprehensive administrative database of all businesses in New Zealand, we investigate the impact of droughts on farm revenue, profits, return on capital, business equity, debt to income ratio, and interest coverage ratio. Over the period we examine (2007-2016) about half of the districts experienced severe droughts, and almost 85% of districts were affected by more moderate droughts at least once. For dairy farms, there is a strong negative relationship between the occurrence of droughts two years earlier and farms’ revenue, profit and consequently their return on capital. More surprisingly, we found that current (same fiscal year) drought events have positive impacts on dairy farms’ revenue and profit; this effect is most likely attributable to drought-induced increases in the price of milk solids (New Zealand is the market maker in this global market). In general, dairy farmers ‘benefit’ more from drought events when compared to sheep/beef farms, whereas the latter sector has less impact on global prices. These findings are useful for shaping climate-change adaptation as there is a clear variation in the future climate-change projections of drought intensities and frequencies for different regions in New Zealand.
Q54|Should Faustmann forecast climate change?|Climate change is predicted to substantially alter forest growth. Optimally, forest owners should take these future changes into account when making rotation decisions today. However, the fundamental uncertainty surrounding climate change makes predicting these shifts hard. Hence, this paper asks whether forecasting them is necessary for optimal rotation decisions. While climate-change uncertainty makes it theoretically impossible to calculate expected profit losses of not forecasting, we suggest a method utilizing Monte-Carlo simulations to obtain a credible upper bound on these losses. We show that an owner following a rule of thumb - ignoring future changes and only observing changes as they come - will closely approximate optimal management. If changes are observed without too much delay, profit losses and errors in harvesting are negligible. This means that the very complex analytical problem of optimal rotation with changing growth dynamics can be simplified to a sequence of stationary problems. It also implies the argument that boundedly-rational agents may behave “as if” being fully rational has traction in forestry.
Q54|Floods and spillovers: Households after the 2011 great flood in Thailand| In 2011, Thailand experienced its worst flooding in decades; it caused widespread damages, and a considerable loss of life. Using data from the Thai Household Socio-Economic Survey (THSES), this paper analyses its economic impacts. In the 2012 THSES, households answered a set of questions on the extent of flooding they experienced in the 12 months prior. As the same households are followed over time, the timing of the survey and its panel structure allows us to analyse household welfare before and after the flood, for both affected households and for those who were not directly flooded. We can thus measure the true impact of the disaster on income, expenditure, assets, debt and savings levels as well as labour market outcomes. We analyse flood impacts across different socio-economic groups and livelihoods, and identify spillover effects on those households that were not directly affected by the flooding.
Q54|EU ETS and the new green paradox|With the new rules of the EU ETS, involving cancellation of allowances, cumulative emissions are no longer fixed but depending on the market outcome. Perino (2018) showed that additional abatement effort can reduce cumulative emissions if it occurs within a few years. This article shows that Perino’s result will be reversed, i.e., cumulative emissions increase, if the abatement effort is at a later year, or permanent. Thus, a new green paradox has emerged.
Q54|Hedging Climate Change News|We propose and implement a procedure to dynamically hedge climate change risk. To create our hedge target, we extract innovations from climate news series that we construct through textual analysis of high-dimensional data on newspaper coverage of climate change. We then use a mimicking portfolio approach based on a large panel of equity returns to build climate change hedge portfolios. We discipline the exercise by using third-party ESG scores of firms to model their climate risk exposures. We show that this approach yields parsimonious and industry-balanced portfolios that perform well in hedging innovations in climate news both in-sample and out-of-sample. The resulting hedge portfolios outperform alternative hedging strategies based primarily on industry tilts. We discuss multiple directions for future research on financial approaches to managing climate risk.
Q54|Would my driving pattern change if my neighbor were to buy an emission-free car?|Aiming to reduce the number of brown (polluting) cars on the road, several countries currently promote the purchase and use of green (emission-free) cars through financial and non-financial incentives. We study how such incentives affect consumers who continue to drive brown cars. Using a simple model, we analyze the effects of policy instruments such as subsidizing green cars, taxing brown cars, and allowing green cars to drive in bus lanes. Car owners are influenced by price incentives as well as by external effects from traffic (such as congestion) both in regular lanes and in bus lanes. An extension of the model also considers how changes in local driving habits affect brown-car driving. We find that subsidizing green cars and allowing green cars to drive in bus lanes might increase brown-car driving. We also report the results of a recent survey containing questions specifically designed to tap the significance of the model’s core mechanisms. The results are largely consistent with propositions derived from the model. While most brown-car respondents report their driving was unchanged after the implementation of the policies to promote green cars, some – particularly in major cities – report that these policies caused them to reduce or increase their driving. We conclude that some mechanisms in our model are more important than others and that certain mechanisms appear to influence different brown-car drivers in different ways. Overall, it seems that Norwegian policies to promote the purchase and use of green cars have indeed reduced brown-car driving.
Q54|Climate Change Expectations and Endogenous Economic Growth in the DICE Model|This paper studies the investment based growth rate effects of climate change. The analysis is based on the Integrated Assessment Model DICE by Nordhaus (2008). I depart from the original model, in that endogenous investments into a knowledge stock drive economic growth. Due to a negative capital accumulation as well as savings effect on the knowledge stock, climate change has a negative impact on gross income that lasts into the long run. In order to be able to quantify the growth rate effects, I calibrate the endogenous growth model version of DICE towards its exogenous growth counterpart. I find that in the exogenous growth model version of DICE, compared to its endogenous growth equivalent, in the social optimum, gross income is over-estimated by 2.3 % in 2100 and by 6.8 % in 2150.
Q54|The Risk of Policy Tipping and Stranded Carbon Assets|If global warming is to stay below 2°C, there are four risks of assets stranding. First, substantial fossil fuel reserves will be stranded at the end of the fossil era. Second, this will be true for exploration capital too. Third, unanticipated changes in present or expected future climate policy cause instantaneous discrete jumps in today’s valuation of physical and natural capital. Fourth, if timing and intensity of climate policy are uncertain, revaluation of assets occurs as uncertainty about future climate policy is resolved. E.g. abandoning climate policy plans immediately boosts scarcity rent, market capitalization, exploration investment and discoveries. To explain and quantify these four effects, we use an analytical model of investment in exploration capital with intertemporal adjustment costs, depletion of reserves and market capitalization, and calibrate it to the global oil and gas industry. Climate policy implements a carbon budget commensurate with 2°C peak warming and we allow for different instruments: immediate or delayed carbon taxes and renewable subsidies. The social welfare ranking of these instruments is inverse to that of the oil and gas industry which prefers renewable subsidy and delaying taxes for as long as possible. We also pay attention to how the legislative “risk” of tipping into policy action affects the timing of the end of the fossil era, the profitability of existing capital, and green paradox effects.
Q54|What Role for Electric Vehicles in the Decarbonization of the Car Transport Sector in Europe?|The transport sector is the only sector where carbon emissions continue to grow. This has led policy makers to propose ambitious policies to reduce emissions in the car sector, in particular fuel efficiency standards, portfolio mandates for Electric Vehicles and purchase taxes or subsidies. A portfolio mandate describes a minimum quota of annual electric vehicle sales. We use a two-period model for the car manufacturing sector to compare the cost efficiency of these policies. The model has gasoline fuelled cars (GV) compete with battery electric cars (EV). Both types of cars have endogenous technological progress that is triggered by environmental policies, including tradable fuel efficiency standards, portfolio mandates, carbon taxes, purchase taxes and R&D subsidies. EVs can serve as batteries that permit grid operators to shift off peak (renewable) electricity to peak hour supply. The model is calibrated to evaluate the EU policy to reduce average carbon emissions of cars by 37,5% in 2030. We assess the cost-efficiency of three types of policy instruments evaluating production costs, fuel costs, and externalities. We find that a fuel efficiency standard targeting gasoline cars achieves emission reductions at a much lower cost than a portfolio mandate for Electric cars.
Q54|Searching for carbon leaks in multinational companies|Does climate change policy cause companies to shift the location of production, thereby creating carbon leakage? We examine the impact of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) on the geographical distribution of carbon emissions within multinational companies based on data from the Carbon Disclosure Project for the period 2007- 2009. Our data includes regional emissions of 435 companies, of which 47 are subject to EU ETS regulation. We find no evidence that the EU ETS has induced a displacement of carbon emissions from Europe towards the rest of the world. Our results suggest that claims that the EU ETS would cause carbon leakage might have been exaggerated.
Q54|Los legados del conflicto armado sobre la capacidad de los hogares para mitigar los choques económicos negativos: Evidencia para Colombia|Este artículo estudia los legados de las instituciones creadas en tiempos de guerra, medidas como rebelocracia, sobre la capacidad de los hogares para mitigar choques negativos de ingresos. La rebelocracia es el orden social establecido por los actores armados no estatales (AANE) en las comunidades que controlan (Arjona, 2016). Al proveer bienes públicos y unas reglas predecibles, la rebelocracia puede generar incentivos para que los hogares expandan su producción y acumulen riqueza. Esto los situaría en trayectorias de ingreso más alto frente a aquellos hogares que viven en zonas de conflicto, pero inmersas en la violencia y el caos. Si estas mejores condiciones persisten después de que los AANE abandonan el territorio, los hogares en áreas con una rebelocracia fuerte podrán mitigar mejor los choques negativos de ingreso. La estrategia empírica identifica las respuestas de los hogares rurales a choques climáticos aleatorios y estima su impacto heterogéneo respecto al nivel de rebelocracia. Con base en un panel de hogares en cuatro regiones de Colombia afectadas por el conflicto, las estimaciones controlan por variables no observables que no varían en el tiempo. El estudio encuentra que, en las regiones con una rebelocracia fuerte, los hogares mitigan mejor los impactos negativos de los choques climáticos comparados con aquellos que viven en regiones con una intervención limitada o nula de los AANE. Los primeros hogares sufren un impacto menor después de enfrentar un choque climático, y recurren menos a la migración de supervivencia. La provisión de bienes públicos explica una parte importante del efecto de la rebelocracia. Es fundamental aclarar que esto no implica que el conflicto tenga efectos positivos sobre la población. Los resultados sugieren que vivir con reglas claras en medio del conflicto es mejor que vivir en medio de la incertidumbre y el caos. Si bien este estudio no estima efectos causales, los coeficientes estimados son robustos a controlar por factores que pueden explicar la instauración de la rebelocracia.
Q54|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
Q54|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
Q54|Does Access to Health Care Mitigate Environmental Damages?|Differential access to health care is commonly cited as a source of heterogeneity in environmental health damages, yet little causal evidence exists to support such claims. We address this deficit in two settings by testing whether the negative impacts of ambient temperature exposure on mortality were mitigated by (1) access to primary care through the Community Health Center program, and (2) access to hospital care through the desegregation of Southern hospitals. The results demonstrate that increased access to health care can drive heterogeneity in environmental damages when the mode of care is sufficiently relevant to the damages suffered.
Q54|Discounting the Future: on Climate Change, Ambiguity Aversion and Epstein-Zin Preferences|We focus on the effect of preference specifications on the current day valuation of future outcomes. Specifically, we analyze the effect of risk aversion, ambiguity aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution on the willingness to pay to avoid climate change risk. The first part of the paper analyzes a general disaster (jump) risk model with a constant arrival rate of disasters. This provides useful intuition in how preferences influence valuation of long-term risk. The second part of the paper extends this model with a climate model and a temperature dependent arrival rate. Since the model yields closed form solutions up to solving an integral, our model does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality of numerical IAMs with several state variables. Introducing Epstein-Zin preferences with an elasticity of substitution higher than one and ambiguity aversion leads to much larger estimates of the social cost of carbon than obtained under power utility. The dominant parameters are the risk aversion coefficient and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution. Ambiguity aversion is of second order importance.
Q54|Extreme Temperature and Extreme Violence across Age and Gender: Evidence from Russia|We examine the relationship between extreme temperatures and violent mortality across Russian regions, with implications for the social costs of climate change. We assess the unequal impact of temperature shocks across gender and age groups by exploring a dataset on temperature and violence in Russia, between the years 1989 and 2015. Hot days lead to an increase in both female and male victims, one hot day resulting in the loss of 1,579 person-years of life for men, and 642 for women. However, the likelihood of victimization during weekends rises noticeably for women, with women between 25 and 59 more victimized on weekends. Our results suggest that female victimization on hot days would be mitigated by increases in regional income and job opportunities, and on cold days, by decreasing the consumption of spirits.
Q54|Climate Change, Inequality, and Human Migration|This paper investigates the long-term implications of climate change on local, interregional, and international migration of workers. For nearly all of the world's countries, our micro-founded model jointly endogenizes the effects of changing temperature and sea level on income distribution and individual decisions about fertility, education, and mobility. Climate change intensifies poverty and income inequality creating favorable conditions for urbanization and migration from low- to high-latitude countries. Encompassing slow- and fast-onset mechanisms, our projections suggest that climate change will induce the voluntary and forced displacement of 100 to 160 million workers (200 to 300 million climate migrants of all ages) over the course of the 21st century. However, under current migration laws and policies, forcibly displaced people predominantly relocate within their country and merely 20% of climate migrants opt for long-haul migration to OECD countries. If climate change induces generalized and persistent conflicts over resources in regions at risk, we project significantly larger cross-border flows in the future.
Q54|Technology Treaties and Climate Change|"We introduce an international technology treaty (""Tech Treaty"") that couples the funding of research for a more advanced abatement technology with an international emissions permit market. While each country decides on domestic permit issuance, a fraction of these permits is auctioned by an international agency. Auction revenues scale up license revenues for the innovators of abatement technologies. We show that such a treaty increases innovations and decreases emissions under plausible conditions compared to an emissions trading system without additional technology agreement. Finally, we discuss how a Tech Treaty may inspire next steps in existing technology programs."
Q54|Sustainable finance, the good, the bad and the ugly: a critical assessment of the EU institutional framework for the green transition|The transition to a green economy is arguably the most important economic transformation of the next decades. To be completed it requires the mobilization of astounding resources, a flow of technological innovation and a whole series of new rules going from technical standards to financial regulation. Given the resources it needs, the transition, to be credible, requires a full engagement of the financial system. On this regard we analyze the policy set-up of Europe, the most advanced area on the issue. We identify a three-layer functioning of the EU project for transition. The first one (“green products”) is fully compatible with the present financial system. A second layer entails changes in the business model and organization of financial operators but it can be phased in with minor overhauls. Finally, there is a third layer, largely incompatible with the present financial system, yet crucial to achieve transition. We show that, according to the same EU analysis, the transition needs a total change in the financial landscape and therefore it is, rebus sic stantibus, intrinsically unfeasible. We suggest ways to escape the dilemma that connects financial stability and green economy.
Q54|Climate Change, Inequality, and Human Migration|This paper investigates the long-term implications of climate change on local, interregional, and international migration of workers. For nearly all of the world's countries, our micro-founded model jointly endogenizes the effects of changing temperature and sea level on income distribution and individual decisions about fertility, education, and mobility. Climate change intensifies poverty and income inequality creating favorable conditions for urbanization and migration from low- to highlatitude countries. Encompassing slow- and fast-onset mechanisms, our projections suggest that climate change will induce the voluntary and forced displacement of 100 to 160 million workers (200 to 300 million climate migrants of all ages) over the course of the 21st century. However, under current migration laws and policies, forcibly displaced people predominantly relocate within their country and merely 20 % of climate migrants opt for long-haul migration to OECD countries. If climate change induces generalized and persistent conflicts over resources in regions at risk, we project significantly larger cross-border flows in the future.
Q54|Global Futures of Energy, Climate, and Policy: Qualitative and Quantitative Foresight towards 2055|Existing long-term energy and climate scenarios are typically a rather simple extrapolation of past trends. Both qualitative and quantitative outlooks co-exist, but they often focus narrowly on individual perspectives, which is opposed to the interlinked and complex nature of energy and climate. Therefore, this study presents a set of novel and multidisciplinary narratives that give insight into four distinct and extreme yet plausible worlds: base case ‘Business-as-usual’, worst case ‘Survival of the Fittest’, best case ‘Green Cooperation’, and surprise scenario ‘ClimateTech’. Going beyond other outlooks, our narratives focus on changes in the geopolitical landscape and global order, social perspectives on climate issues, and technological progress. These holistic scenarios are designed to overcome previous barriers by an innovative bridging between both qualitative and quantitative methods. We start with the generation of qualitative scenario storylines using techniques of foresight analysis, including a facilitated expert workshop. Then, we calibrate the numerical energy systems model Multimod to reflect the different storylines. Finally, we unite and refine storylines and numerical model results into holistic narratives. In addition to the narratives (which include quantitative results on e.g. emissions, energy consumption, and the electricity mix), the study generates insights on the key uncertainties and drivers of different pathways of (more or less successful) climate change mitigation. Additionally, a set of transparent indicators serves as an early-warning system to identify which of the paths the world might enter. Lessons learnt include the dangers from increased isolationism and the importance of integrating economic and energy-related objectives as well as the large role of public opinion and social transition.
Q54|The Heat is on: a framework for measuring financial stress under disruptive energy transition scenarios|This paper presents a comprehensive framework for analyzing financial stress under scenarios with a disruptive transition to a low-carbon economy. This stress testing framework is designed to be readily applied by macroprudential supervisors or financial institutions. First, we construct stress scenarios using two dimensions: climate policy and energy technology. Then, we rely on various modeling approaches to derive macroeconomic and industry-specific implications. These approaches include a novel methodology for capturing industry-specific transition risks. Third, we disaggregate EUR 2.3 trillion in assets of more than 80 Dutch financial institutions by industry. Finally, our calculations show that financial losses can be sizeable, as portfolio values can decline by up to 11%. These outcomes suggest that climate-transition risks warrant close and timely attention from a financial stability perspective.
Q54|Reexamining the growth effects of ENSO: the role of local weather conditions|This paper examines the growth effects of ENSO events through their interactions with local weather conditions using the Standardized Precipitation and Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) from 1975 to 2014 and over a sample of 74 countries. The inclusion of SPEI in panel estimation makes it possible to control for time-varying country-specific effects of ENSO events, therefore outlining their heterogeneous effects on growth and eliminating a potential source of omitted-variable bias. By better identifying the persistence of ENSO effects on local weather conditions, we evidence that ENSO events generate heterogeneous and local effects depending not only on countries’ climate regime but also on their weather patterns. Our results suggest that examining the growth effects of ENSO events should thus explicitly account for their interaction with weather patterns to capture more precisely the heterogeneity across countries.
Q54|Mitigation strategies under the threat of solar radiation management|The option to tackle climate change by means of Solar Radiation Management (SRM) is mostly thought to reduce efforts of mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. Here we hypothesize that (i) a unilateral threat to employ SRM can induce players to commit to strategies with increased mitigation effort compared to what would be observed at the Nash equilibrium in emission strategies only and (ii) there exists a way to share the burden imposed by commitment to avoid SRM that Pareto dominates an alternative that would involve too high current emission levels then followed by future SRM deployment. To study these hypotheses we develop a two-region, two-stage, two-period game where regions choose mitigation and SRM. While SRM targets regional climate preferences, in line with current scientific evidence its deployment leads to uncertain damages on the other region. We first develop the general theory and then study a more specific linear-quadratic application. Finally we calibrate the model to real-world data and find that hypothesis (ii) holds for plausible values.
Q54|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy: Normative Assessment and Positive Prognosis|There is widespread agreement among economists--and a diverse set of other policy analysts--that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap-and-trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.
Q54|Assessing the Techno-economic Effects of the Delayed Deployment of CCS Power Plants|Meeting the targets of climate change mitigation set by the Paris Agreement entails a huge transformation of the energy sector, as low- or no-carbon technologies must gradually substitute traditional, fossil-based technologies. In this perspective, the vast majority of energy analyses and scenarios project a fundamental role of Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS). However, uncertainty remains on the actual techno-economic feasibility of this technology: despite the considerable investment over the recent past, commercial maturity is yet to come. The main aim of this work is to evaluate the impacts of a progressively delayed deployment of CCS plants from a climate, energy, and economic perspective, focusing in particular on the power sector. This is carried out with the Integrated Assessment Model WITCH, exploring a wide set of long-term scenarios over mitigation targets ranging from 1.5°C to 4°C in terms of global temperature increase in 2100 with respect to the pre-industrial levels. The analysis shows that CCS will be a key mitigation option at a global level for carbon mitigation, achieving about 30% of the electricity mix in 2100 (with a homogeneous distribution across coal, gas, and biomass) if its deployment is unconstrained. If CCS deployment is delayed or forbidden, penetration cannot reach the optimal unconstrained level, resulting in a mix rearrangement, with a strong increase in renewables and, to a lesser extent, nuclear. The mitigation targets can be met, but policy costs without the implementation of CCS are from 35% to 72% higher than in the corresponding unconstrained scenarios.
Q54|Pricing Poseidon: Extreme Weather Uncertainty and Firm Return Dynamics|We investigate the uncertainty dynamics surrounding extreme weather events through the lens of option and stock markets by identifying market responses to the uncertainty regarding both potential hurricane landfall and subsequent economic impact. Stock options on firms with establishments exposed to the landfall region exhibit increases in implied volatility of 5-10 percent, reflecting impact uncertainty. Using hurricane forecasts, we show that landfall uncertainty and potential impact uncertainty are reflected in prices before landfall. We find no evidence that markets incorporate better hurricane forecasts than those from NOAA. Improvements to hurricane forecasts could have economically significant effects in financial markets.
Q54|Sellin’ in the Rain: Adaptation to Weather and Climate in the Retail Sector|Using novel methodology and proprietary daily store-level sporting goods and apparel brand data, I find that, consistent with long-run adaptation to climate, sales sensitivity to weather declines with historical norms and variability of weather. Short-run adaptation to weather shocks is dominated by changes in what people buy and how they buy it, with little intertemporal substitution. Over four weeks, a one-standard deviation one-day weather shock shifts sales by about 10 percent. While switching between indoor and outdoor stores offsets a small portion of contemporaneous responses to weather, I find no evidence that ecommerce offsets any of the effects.
Q54|Carbon Consumption, the Carbon-Based Ecosystem, and Output|This paper studies the effects of changes in the carbon-based ecosystem on a country's output. We propose and estimate a dynamic production model in which a country's ecosystem, as measured by its reservoir of carbon in land biomass and soils, enters explicitly as a productive input. Land use is the key endogenous decision in the model. We characterize a country's optimal land use policy given its direct effects on the ecosystem, and the indirect feedback effects from land sink absorption of atmospheric GHG concentrations. We estimate the model's land sink absorption rates and output elasticities with respect to land use, fossil fuel emissions, and land carbon stock for 162 countries. Globally, a 1% decline in a country's land carbon leads to an estimated 0.3% decline in its GDP per year, even after it optimally adjusts its land use policy. We then simulate the model to 2100 under four standard Representative Concentration Pathway scenarios. In the simulations, developed countries experience higher GDP growth by 2100 under low concentration scenarios. For these countries, GDP initially grows faster in high concentration scenarios. By 2050 it declines in high concentration scenarios but continues to grow in low ones. Developing countries, by contrast, experience higher GDP growth under high concentration scenarios throughout the century. Global growth in GDP is maximal under low to moderate GHG concentration scenarios.
Q54|The Role of Weather on Schooling and Work of Young Adults in Madagascar|We examine the impact of rainfall variability and cyclones on schooling and work among a cohort of teens and young adults in Madagascar. We estimate a bivariate probit model using a panel survey conducted in 2004 and 2011 in this poor island nation, which is frequently affected by extreme weather events. Our results show that negative rainfall deviations and cyclones reduce the probability of attending school and encourage young men and, to a greater extent, women to enter the work force, and they reduce their French and math test scores. Less wealthy households are most likely to experience this school- to-work transition in the face of rainfall shocks. The finding is consistent with poorer households having less savings and more limited access to credit and insurance, which reduces their ability to cope with rainfall shortages. We also find that there are both contemporaneous and lagged effects of the weather shocks, and that they are of a similar magnitude. Our findings are robust to the use of a linear probability model, as well as a wide range of definitions of rainfall variations.
Q54|The impact of natural disasters on the banking sector: Evidence from hurricane strikes in the Caribbean|While natural disasters cause considerable damage and a number of studies have attempted to investigate the nature and quantify the magnitude of these losses, there is a paucity of empirical evidence on the impact on the banking sector. In this paper we construct a panel of quarterly banking data and historical losses due to hurricane strikes for islands in the Eastern Caribbean to econometrically investigate the impact of these natural disasters on the banking industry. Our results suggest that, following a hurricane strike, banks face deposit withdrawals and experience a negative funding shock to which they respond by reducing the supply of lending and by drawing on liquid assets. There are no signs of deterioration in loan defaults and bank capital. Therefore, the withdrawal and use of deposits rather than an expansion in credit appears to play a significant role in funding post hurricane recovery in the region. This points to the importance of an active reserve requirement policy.
Q54|The impact of flood management policies on individual adaptation actions: insights from a French case study|Floods can be managed at the collective and individual level. Knowing the interaction between measures taken at both scales can help design more efficient flood risk management policies. Here, we combine the data collected during a survey of 331 inhabitants of flood-prone areas in the South of France and spatial databases to empirically examine the interaction between individual adaptation measures and three types of collective management tools: a national insurance scheme, dikes, and zoning instruments. In line with the levee effect hypothesis, we found that dike protection reduces the probability to have or take individual adaptation measures and that this effect could be mitigated by zoning instruments. Moreover, we found that the national insurance scheme does not crowd out individual adaptation.
Q54|The impact of flood management policies on individual adaptation actions: Insights from a French case study|Floods can be managed at the collective and individual level. Knowing the interaction between measures taken at both scales can help design more efficient flood risk management policies. Here, we combine the data collected during a survey of 331 inhabitants of flood-prone areas in the South of France and spatial databases to empirically examine the interaction between individual adaptation measures and three types of collective management tools: a national insurance scheme, dikes, and zoning instruments. In line with the levee effect hypothesis, we found that dike protection reduces the probability to have or take individual adaptation measures and that this effect could be mitigated by zoning instruments. Moreover, we found that the national insurance scheme does not crowd out individual adaptation.
Q54|Weather Shocks|How much do weather shocks matter? The literature addresses this question in two isolated ways: either by looking at long-term effects through the prism of theoretical models, or by focusing on short-term effects using empirical analysis. We propose a framework to bring together both the short and long-term effects through the lens of an estimated DSGE model with a weather-dependent agricultural sector. The model is estimated using Bayesian methods and quarterly data for New Zealand using the weather as an observable variable. In the short-run, our analysis underlines the key role of weather as a driver of business cycles over the sample period. An adverse weather shock generates a recession, boosts the non-agricultural sector and entails a domestic currency depreciation. Taking a long-term perspective, a welfare analysis reveals that weather shocks are not a free lunch: the welfare cost of weather is currently estimated at 0.19% of permanent consumption. Climate change critically increases the variability of key macroeconomic variables (such as GDP, agricultural output or the real exchange rate) resulting in a higher welfare cost peaking to 0.29% in the worst case scenario.
Q54|Mineral Resources for Renewable Energy: Optimal Timing of Energy Production|The production of energy from renewable sources is much more intensive in minerals than that from fossil resources. The scarcity of certain minerals limits the potential for substituting renewable energy for scarce fossil resources. However, minerals can be recycled, while fossils cannot. We develop an intertemporal model to study the dynamics of the optimal energy mix in the presence of mineral intensive renewable energy and fossil energy. We analyze energy production when both mineral and fossil resources are scarce, but minerals are recyclable. We show that the greater the recycling rate of minerals, the more the energy mix should rely on renewable energy, and the sooner should investment in renewable capacity take place. We confirm these results even in the presence of other better known factors that affect the optimal schedule of resource use: growth in the productivity in the renewable sector, imperfect substitution between the two sources of energy, convex extraction costs for mineral resources and pollution from the use of fossil resources.
Q54|Shocks, economic policy and technology choice of heterogenous producers|This article introduces a new Melitz-type model of heterogeneous producers with decreasing returns to scale and different productivities. Different to previous models, it describes smallholder producers in rural areas of developing countries in the context of environment and development economics. The model enables a socially sensitive policy analysis considering poverty and distributional effects. In this model, the production input causes a negative environmental externality. External shocks, e.g., caused by climate change, and economic policies affect the producers' endogenous choice between market entry or exit and between simple or advanced technology. In the first step, various shocks and policies are analyzed theoretically. A novel type of the rebound effect (Jevons paradox) is identifed for the production input that occurs when market entry is incentivized by productivity improvements. In the second step, the model is calibrated by applying it to coffee production in rural Vietnam. The simulation results show that secondary effects of the shocks, such as employment effects, can be substantially larger than the original impact. The support of market entry or of the advanced technology creates adverse distributional effects.
Q54|High Wages or Wages For Energy? An Alternative View of The British Case (1645-1700)|Energy was one of the keys to the remarkable increase in English GDP between 1650 and 1700. Increased per head physical activity and basal metabolic rate led to increased energy consumption. In response, subsistence wages, productivity, wages and incomes increased. Malthusian adjustment explains only 50 per cent of the increase in calorie intake, the other 50 per cent is associated with higher energy consumption. Non-agricultural wages began to differ from agricultural wages. British economic development occurred everywhere, in the city and in the countryside. This approach opens new perspectives to the debate between enclosures and open fields and why underemployment became common among the philosophers' British debates.
Q54|Do the Right Thing! Leaders, Weather Shocks and Social Conflicts in Pre-Industrial France|I use spatial and temporal variation in temperature shocks to examine the effect of adverse weather conditions on the onset of social conflicts in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century France. The paper’s contribution is threefold. First, I document the effect of temperature shocks on standards of living using cross-section and panel prices data. Second, I link high-resolution temperature data and a new database of 8,528 episodes of social conflicts in France between 1661 and 1789. I use a linear probability model with subregional and year fixed effects to establish a causal connection between temperature shocks and conflicts. One standard deviation increase in temperature increased the probability of social conflicts by about 5.3 per cent. To the best of my knowledge, these results are the first to quantify the effect of temperature shocks on intergroup conflict in pre-industrial Europe. Finally, I investigate the role of local leaders– the intendants– in the mitigation of temperature shocks. I show that leaders with higher level of local experience were better able to cope with adverse weather conditions. I argue that years of local experience were a key determinant in the intendant’s ability to administer efficiently his province. This interpretation is supported by historical evidence.
Q54|Optimal policies for electromobility: Joint assessment of transport and electricity distribution costs in Norway|We observe a rapidly rising share of the passenger car fleet becoming electric as policy makers keep making the purchase and use of electric vehicles (EVs) more favorable in the pursuit of reducing pollution. The electrification of transport will make the transport and energy systems more intertwined: EV-friendly transport policies increase the demand for power, thus challenging the distribution grid’s capacity, while electricity policies immediately impact on the generalized costs of driving EVs. This paper develops a stylized economic model for passenger transport in the greater Oslo area where the agents’ endogenous choice of car ownership, transport pattern and EV home charging is determined jointly in equilibrium. If enough EV-owning agents charge during power peak hours, costly grid expansions may be needed. We examine how the distribution grid company can respond in order to mitigate these costs with different pricing schemes and how this in turn affects the transport equilibrium. We find that applying peak tariffs for the grid will help strike a better balance between investment costs and EV-owners’ disutility of charging during off-peak hours.
Q54|EU ETS and the new green paradox|With the new rules of the EU ETS, involving cancellation of allowances, cumulative emissions are no longer fixed but depending on the market outcome. Perino (2018) showed that additional abatement effort can reduce cumulative emissions if it occurs within a few years. This article shows that Perino’s result will be reversed, i.e., cumulative emissions increase, if the abatement effort is at a later year, or permanent. Thus, a new green paradox has emerged.
Q54|Optimal REDD+ in the carbon market|Unilateral actions to reduce CO2 emissions can be costly and may lead to carbon leakage through relocation of emission-intensive and trade-exposed industries (EITE). This paper examines the welfare effects of introducing an emission offset mechanism for the EITE sector, where EITE producers may have to acquire more than one offset credit to balance one ETS allowance. The analytical results suggest that under certain conditions it is globally welfare improving for a single region to introduce such an offset mechanism. Numerical simulations in the context of the EU ETS and REDD+ credits support the analytical findings, and suggest that it is optimal for the EU to require EITE producers to acquire several REDD+ credits to offset one EU ETS allowance.
Q54|The Consequences of Uncertainty: Climate Sensitivity and Economic Sensitivity to the Climate|"We construct an integrated assessment model with multiple energy sources-two fossil fuels and “green energy"" - and use it to evaluate ranges of plausible estimates for the climate sensitivity as well as for the sensitivity of the economy to climate change. Rather than focusing on uncertainty explicitly, we look at extreme scenarios defined by the upper and lower limits given in available studies in the literature. We compare optimal policy with laissez faire and we point to the possible policy errors that could arise. By far the largest policy error arises when the climate policy is “overly passive""; “overly zealous"" climate policy (i.e., a high carbon tax applied when climate change and its negative on the economy are very limited) does not hurt the economy much as there is considerable substitutability between fossil and non-fossil energy sources."
Q54|Household Preferences for Load Restrictions: Is There an Effect of Pro-Environmental Framing?|In this paper we investigate if a pro-environmental framing influences households' stated willingness to accept restrictions on their electricity use. We use a split-sample choice experiment (CE) and ask respondents to choose between their current electricity contract and hypothetical contracts featuring various load controls and a monetary compensation. Our results indicate that the pro-environmental framing have little impact on the respondents' choices. We observe a significant framing effect on choices and marginal willingness-to-accept (MWTA) for only a few contract attributes. The results further suggest that there is no significant framing effect among households that engage in different pro-environmental activities.
Q54|Does visible shock update firms' unrelated trade diversity in anticipation of future shock? Evidence from the Great East Japan Earthquake and expected Nankai Trough Earthquake|This paper investigates empirically the interrelationship between the update of risk perception of expected disaster through the actual disaster damage and the change in the spatial distribution of inter-firm transactional networks (supply chains) around the hazardous area of the expected Nankai Trough Earthquake after the Great East Japan Earthquake from 2009 to 2017. By adopting the propensity score matching and the difference-in-difference (-indifferences) method, this study estimates the effects of tsunami damage on the magnitude of the spatial dispersion of the supply chain network stemmed from risk perception. The results show that the existence of suppliers in the Nankai Trough area per se did not or marginally lead to the supply chain dispersion regardless of the size of firms, while the supply chains of medium-size firms who had suppliers in both the Nankai Trough area and the damaged area of the Great East Japan Earthquake was spatially dispersed after 2011.
Q54|Optimal environmental border adjustments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade|We consider the legal and economic context for border adjustments that might be used to augment subglobal carbon abatement. Following Markusen (1975) we establish optimal border policy in the presence of cross-border environmental damages. The optimal border policy includes a strategic component that is inconsistent with legal commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Incorporating GATT compliance into the theory indicates an optimal border adjustment that taxes the carbon content of trade below the domestic carbon price. This theoretic finding is in contrast to the standard advice to impose the domestic carbon price on the carbon content of trade. The wedge between the domestic carbon price and the optimal environmental border adjustment occurs in general equilibrium because border adjustments inadvertently drive up consumption of emissions intensive goods in unregulated regions. We conclude our analysis with numeric simulations of Annex-I carbon policy. We find an optimal import tariff on the carbon content of aluminum that is on the order of 50% of the domestic carbon price. Countries that impose border carbon adjustments at the domestic carbon price will be extracting rents from unregulated regions at the expense of efficient environmental policy and consistency with international law.
Q54|The rebound effect and its representation in energy and climate models|In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art and common practice of energy and climate modeling vis-à-vis the rebound literature, in particular regarding how macroeconomic energy and climate models quantify and include energy and greenhouse gas rebound effects. First, we focus on rebound effects in models of costless energy efficiency improvement that hold other attributes constant (zero-cost breakthrough), and an energy efficiency policy that may be bundled with other product changes that affect energy use (policy-induced efficiency improvement) (Gillingham et al. 2015). Second, we examine macroeconomic studies focusing on energy efficiency both in industry and in private households. Third, we go through a general theoretical revision from micro- to macroeconomic levels (the aggregation level) to include a review of the so-called meso-level studies (focused on the analysis of the production side). From 118 recent studies along the aggregation level, out of which 25 compute rebound calculations, we find that the average energy rebound effect is 58% with a standard deviation of 58%, and when we include green house gas rebound calculations, the magnitude is of the order of 43% with a standard deviation of 55%. Finally, we argue that the rebound effect is a phenomenon that requires a sound understanding of the complex interactions from different dimensions (e.g. aggregation level, heterogeneity, climate, energy conservation and economic growth), and we provide some ideas and motivations for future research.
Q54|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q54|Environmental Effects of Capital Income Taxation - A New Double Dividend?|We analyze a n-country, two-period Nash tax competition game to evaluate Sinn’s proposal to use capital income taxation as a means to decelerate fossil fuel ex- traction (Sinn, 2008). The interest and discount rate is determined on a perfectly competitive consumer loan market on which the resource extractor acts as the loan supplier. Our first result is that, with perfectly identical countries, tax rates are inefficiently low in the Nash equilibrium of the tax competition game since the tax distortion and the environmental externality are not taken into account. The sec- ond result is that, in an asymmetric setting with resource-exporting and -importing countries, the tax can turn into a subsidy in the exporting country. Moreover, we show that partial cooperation of the importers is always beneficial to them, but can be harmful to the exporter. Finally, we identify cases where full cooperation is self-enforcing.
Q54|A modelling approach for the German gas grid using highly resolved spatial, temporal and sectoral data (GAMAMOD-DE)|Natural gas is the fossil fuel with lowest CO2-emissions, compared to coal, lignite or oil. Regarding the ongoing energy transition in Germany, the extend usage of natural gas provide advantages that might be built a bridge to a low carbon energy system until 2050. Against this backdrop, this paper introduces a model for the German natural gas market (GAMAMOD-DE) with focus on infrastructure utilisation. Following a linear optimization approach, the model considers a highly resolved grid structure of pipelines, storages and cross-border connections to neighbouring countries. The spatial and temporal resolved gas demand is divided into three different sectors: industry, heating and electricity. An application for the year 2012 shows the performance and validation of the proposed model. Results show the utilisation of infrastructure and enable an assessment of the level of security of supply during the considered time frame. In addition, the findings suggest that although European customers suffered on cold winter days in 2012, from a system part of view, the security of supply (SoS) was always ensured. Further research should focus on analysing SoS and resilience of gas networks in the mid- and long-term, especially when sector coupling between electricity and gas is far advanced.
Q54|Cap-and-Trade Policy vs. Carbon Taxation: Of Leakage and Linkage|We assess a 2-period, non-cooperative equilibrium of an n country policy game where countries chose either (i) carbon taxes, (ii) cap-and-trade policy with local permit markets or (iii) cap-and-trade policy with internationally linked permit markets and potential central redistribution of permit revenues. Policy makers maximizes welfare, which depends on household consumption over time and environmental damage from period-1 resource use. We assume costless and complete extraction of this non-renewable resource, so damage only depends on speed of extraction. Tax policy is the least efficient option due to carbon leakage, which introduces a second externality adding to the environmental externality. Cap-and-trade policy does not show any leakage since all symmetric countries will employ caps. Its equilibrium thus only suffers from the environmental externality and welfare is higher than under carbon taxation. The policy scenario with linked permit markets and central redistribution yields an efficient outcome. The redistribution of revenues creates a negative externality which offsets the positive environmental externality.
Q54|Homo Oeconomicus im Treibhaus Erde: Umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aus polit-ökonomischer Perspektive|"Dieser Beitrag macht auf drei umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aufmerksam, die im gegenwärtigen Diskurs zum Themenkomplex Klima- und Umweltschutz zumeist nur am Rande und lediglich ansatzweise behandelt werden. Abschnitt 2 erörtert, inwiefern ""Fake News"" ein Problem für Umweltpolitik darstellen. Abschnitt 3 befasst sich mit der Frage, wie mit den in einigen umweltpolitischen Kontexten weiterhin bestehenden ""Knowing-Doing Gaps"" umgegangen werden kann. Abschnitt 4 weist schließlich auf die Schwierigkeiten einer globalen und gerechten Umweltpolitik hin. Diese Herausforderungen werden aus einer polit-ökonomischen Perspektive, genauer gesagt aus Sicht der Neuen Politischen Ökonomie betrachtet."
Q54|Extreme Temperature and Extreme Violence across Age and Gender: Evidence from Russia|We examine the relationship between extreme temperatures and violent mortality across Russian regions, with implications for the social costs of climate change. We assess the unequal impact of temperature shocks across gender and age groups by exploring a dataset on temperature and violence in Russia, between the years 1989 and 2015. Hot days lead to an increase in both female and male victims, one hot day resulting in the loss of 1,579 person-years of life for men, and 642 for women. However, the likelihood of victimization during weekends rises noticeably for women, with women between 25 and 59 more victimized on weekends. Our results suggest that female victimization on hot days would be mitigated by increases in regional income and job opportunities, and on cold days, by decreasing the consumption of spirits.
Q54|Dosis facit effectum: Why the scope of the carbon tax matters - Evidence from the Swedish residential sector|Sweden has gradually increased its carbon tax within the past 25 years and imposes the world's highest tax on carbon dioxide emissions today. This paper examines the impact of the Swedish carbon tax on residential carbon emissions as well as on consumer behavior. We perform Difference-in-Differences (DiD) regressions and Synthetic Control Methods (SCM) in order to evaluate the causal impact of carbon taxation on carbon emissions in the residential sector. Both methods provide evidence for a causal effect of the carbon tax augmentation in the early 2000s on residential carbon emissions. We find that the scope of the reduction of residential carbon emissions due to the carbon tax augmentation range between 200kg (when compared to other countries with a carbon tax of more than 20 Euros implemented) and 800 kg of CO2 per capita per year (when compared to countries without a carbon tax). Hence, the evidence points towards the effectiveness of carbon taxation in reducing residential CO2 emissions and, thus, mitigating climate change.
Q54|Defining green bonds the danger of neglecting the issuer side: Looking at problems and solutions|The European Union is currently making significant strides to lead on green finance and align its financial system with its climate, sustainability and clean energy ambitions. To this end, the European Commission presented three legislative proposals on sustainable finance in May 2018. One of the EU's main efforts here is to establish a market for green bonds by introducing a common taxonomy. A technical expert group on sustainable finance is currently developing this taxonomy for sustainable finance. However, most experts are from the investor side, while the issuer side is underrepresented in the group. By defining which economic activities are green, the expert group also determines, which economic activities are non-green. Through the taxonomy, the green bond framework will thereby alter the financing conditions for green investments as well as for traditional investments. In our view, the framework on sustainable finance is unbalanced; it emphasizes mostly the investors' view and less the issuers' view. Two problems might arise from this: First, it does not adequately address the contribution of intermediate goods producers to green final products, and second, the contribution of non-green investments to CO2-reduction with the consequence that their financing costs might rise through a green bond framework. Our first recommendation is, that the expert group should shift its focus away from single green products towards the green value chain. This approach would allow intermediate good producers of non-green products to issue green bonds if they contribute to green final products. If the issuer of an intermediate product could prove that, for example, 20 percent of its sales contribute to a green final product, the issuer should be allowed to structure the issuance by distributing 20 percent of the issuance volume as green bonds and the remaining 80 percent as conventional bonds. Considering the green value chain is important, since the financing costs of intermediate products will contribute to the production costs of green final products. Our second recommendation is that businesses should at least in part be allowed to issue green bonds if they invest in technologies that reduce their CO2-emissions significantly. Their production does not fall under the definition of green products, but these firms could also contribute to greening the economy by investing in emission-reducing and energy-saving technologies. Embracing these issuers into the sustainable finance framework would set them incentives to invest into lowering their CO2-emissions.
Q54|Carbon footprint, demography, and employment status?|This paper investigates the interplay between aging of a society and its carbon dioxide emissions. The existing literature based on US data predicts lower overall emissions due to the lower emission intensity of consumption of a growing old-age share of the population. This conjecture is reexamined by a multivariate approach. The underlying hypothesis is that the individual levels of emissions do not only depend on age but also on income and employment status, which are correlated with age. Thus, bivariate analyses, neglecting other relevant variables, might overstate the decline in emissions for older cohorts. The paper shows that this hypothesis is correct. A bivariate approach overestimates the decline of emissions caused by population aging. Policy decisions favoring a longer work life may reverse the dampening effect of aging on emissions.
Q54|Where do migrants from countries ridden by environmental conflict settle? On the scale, selection and sorting of conflict-induced migration|"Environmentally induced conflicts can trigger migration. This paper analyzes the location decisions of migrants, i.e., the ""sorting"" of migrants into alternative destinations. We argue that this sorting depends on a variety of factors. The selection of migrants affects preferences over where to settle and depends on the underlying type of environmentally induced conflict. In addition to (transport-related) migration costs, migration governance shapes the sorting pattern of migrants. Immigration policies in destination countries impose further costs to migration or even prevent settlement. At the same time, national immigration policies depend on the ""supply"" of migrants that are expected to arrive, as well as on other countries' policies regarding immigration. In addition, coordination failure of destination countries may feed back to the sorting decisions of migrants. The chapter discusses sorting not only from a theoretically but also empirical perspective, thereby highlighting both existing studies on sorting and the empirical challenges to analyzing sorting behavior in the context of migration that is induced by environmental conflict."
Q54|The effects of natural disasters and weather variations on international trade: A review of the empirical literature|This review summarizes the empirical literature on the effects of natural disasters and weather variations on international trade flows. A first result is that the body of literature is actually not as small as previously suggested. In total, I summarize 19 studies of 18 independent research teams and show that there is a large diversity in terms of motivations, data sets used, methodologies, and results. Still, some overarching conclusions can be drawn. Increases in average temperature seem to have a detrimental effect on export values (less on imports), mainly for manufactured and agricultural products. Given climate change, this is an important finding for projecting long-term developments of trade volumes. Imports seem to be less affected by temperature changes in the importing country. Findings on the effects of natural disasters are more ambiguous, but at least it can be said that exports seem to be affected negatively by occurrence and severity of disasters in the exporting country. Imports may decrease, increase, or remain unaffected by natural disasters. Regarding heterogeneous effects, small, poor, and hot countries with low degrees of institutional quality and political freedom seem to face the most detrimental effects on their trade flows. Possible directions of future research include analyzing spillover effects in-depth (in terms of time, space, and trade networks), considering adaptation, and using more granular data.
Q54|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q54|The Role of Non-Binding Pledges in Social Dilemmas with Mitigation and Adaptation|This study presents experimental results on the role that non-binding pledges have on the ability of resource users to manage the threat of probabilistic group damages in two separate environments. First, an environment where agents can work collectively to try to mitigate the root cause of the damage (mitigation), which is a form of public good. Second, an environment where in addition to collective mitigation, agents can work autonomously to protect themselves from the damages if they occur (adaptation). The tension is that mitigation and adaptation investments are strategic substitutes. We begin with a model that points to how non-binding pledges could be more effective in a world with both mitigation and adaptation strategies, compared to mitigation only. First-period results show that (i) consistent with previous literature, pledges in a mitigation-only environment do not increase average investments in collective mitigation, but (ii) when both mitigation and adaptation opportunities exist, pledges lead to higher investment in collective mitigation, lower investment in adaptation and increased efficiency. Although the average treatment effect disappears over time as the amount pledged decreases, pledges remain significant predictors of mitigation investments over the course of the experiment.
Q54|Crises and emissions: New empirical evidence from a large sample|In this paper, we empirically assess by means of the local projection method, the impact of different types of financial crises on a variety of pollutant emissions categories for a sample of 86 countries between 1980 and 2012. We find that financial crises in general lead to a fall in CO2 and methane emissions. When hit by a debt crisis, a country experiences a rise in emissions stemming from either energy related activities or industrial processes. During periods of slack, financial crises in general had a positive impact on both methane and nitrous oxide emissions. If a financial crisis hit an economy when it was engaging in contractionary fiscal policies, this led to a negative response of CO2 and production-based emissions.
