Q55|Sources and determinants of responsible innovations: occupational health and safety in italian firms|This paper provides a micro-econometric analysis of the factors facilitating the introduction of responsible innovations by firms, with a focus on those aimed at improving occupational health and safety. These innovations have been rarely investigated with quantitative methods, especially if compared to those aimed at protecting the environment. Accordingly, we also assess whether firms pursuing health and safety innovations are also those ascribing high importance to the reduction of environmental impacts. The evidence provided by using firm-level data taken from the Italian Community Innovation Surveys highlights the key role played by some external sources of knowledge and internal human resource practices for the achievement of responsible innovations. Many similarities but also important differences between firms emerge, according to whether they are committed to health and safety or environmental innovation.
Q55|Innovación financiera para una economía sostenible|El cambio climático, su gestión y mitigación, constituye sin duda uno de los elementos de riesgo más importantes que afrontará nuestra sociedad en las próximas décadas. El sector financiero desempeña un papel fundamental en este reto, tanto por su exposición y las consiguientes implicaciones patrimoniales que pueden derivarse de la materialización de este riesgo como por su labor canalizando las inversiones necesarias para transformar nuestra economía en un modelo sostenible. En este artículo se revisan distintas iniciativas que están teniendo lugar en el sector financiero privado en el proceso de introducción de la variable «sostenibilidad» en la toma de decisiones, con el objetivo tanto de lograr un balance con una menor huella de carbono (transformación del stock) como de desarrollar una estrategia de negocio alineada con unos principios responsables acordes con los compromisos internacionales (transformación del flujo). Se analizan las innovaciones que están surgiendo en el camino hacia unas finanzas sostenibles en relación con 1) la aparición de nuevos proveedores y servicios en los mercados, 2) la creación de nuevos productos financieros con criterios de sostenibilidad, 3) la adaptación de la política de gestión de riesgos financieros, y 4) las interacciones entre los avances tecnológicos y el cambio climático.
Q55|Environmental policy and innovation: a decade of research|Encouraging innovation is an important part of environmental policy. A large literature in environmental economics examines the links between environmental policy and innovation. This paper reviews recent literature on green innovation. I highlight major trends in the literature, including an increased number of cross-country studies and a focus on the effect of different policy instruments on innovation. I include a discussion of the justifications and evidence for technology-specific policy incentives and present evidence on the effectiveness of government R&D spending. My review concludes with a discussion of three promising areas for new research on environmental innovation.
Q55|Green Public Procurement and the Innovation Activities of Firms|This paper provides first empirical insights on the relationship between green public procurement (GPP) and firms' innovation activities. Considering that the public sector is a large buyer in the economy, public procurement is able to work as demand-pull factor for new products and thus innovations - given that the procurement is aimed at such objectives. GPP is specifically implemented to contribute to more sustainable production and consumption. Using a novel firm-level dataset, this paper analyses whether GPP is able to trigger innovation activities within firms, and if so, whether these innovations are environmental innovations or not. The results show some support for a demand-pull effect of GPP on the probability of general product innovations but no conclusive evidence is found for environmental innovations.
Q55|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
Q55|Multidimensional relatedness between innovation systems in sustainability transitions|Recent literature in sustainability transition studies has suggested that established industries may provide resources for innovation in low-carbon technologies. This literature, however, has this far not explained why such resource redeployment takes place. Literature in evolutionary economic geography and management studies, however, have discussed such interactions through the notion of relatedness as an underlying factor. Drawing on these literatures we develop an integrated framework for the analysis of multidimensional relatedness between innovation systems in the context of sustainability transitions. Using semi-structured interviews, we study the technological, institutional and network relatedness between the oil and gas industry and the offshore wind power technology in Norway. Our results show that despite the high relatedness in offshore technologies, low relatedness in terms of institutions has challenged the resource redeployment from the Norwegian oil and gas industry to offshore wind power. We thus suggest that relatedness, understood in multiple structural dimensions, can help to understand why resource redeployment from established industries to technological innovation systems may, or may not, take place.
Q55|Rent seeking for export licenses: Application to the Vietnam rice market|The paper develops a model to examine rent seeking in innovation and export licenses, with an application to Vietnam rice exports. Firms can lobby for export restrictions or for free trade. Innovation is introduced as a cost-reducing technology. The analysis focuses on the innovation incentives of the firm lobbying for export restrictions, and the determinants of lobbying incentives. The analysis shows that firms lobbying for export restrictions may have lower incentives to adopt technological innovations under export restrictions than under free trade. The findings can help to identify economic inefficiency when the political elites use export restrictions to seek rents.
Q55|Dura lex sed lex: why implementation gaps in environmental policy matter?|We investigate implementation gaps observed in environmental regulations in the specific case of dangerous chemical substances such as targeted by the REACH regulation. An agent-based model is developed as an exploratory tool to examine to what extent significant implementation gaps between stringency requirements and real but conditional enforcement jeopardize the transition to safer substitutes, by affecting the way heterogeneous actors perceive the regulatory threat and their innovation strategy. We show that the combination of the most severe regulation with the strictest enforcement and the shortest timing would not necessarily lead to the highest frequency of bans on dangerous substances, because it may alter the competitive process that is vital to preserving diversity in innovation strategies and to developing safer substitutes. Opting for a very severe regulation should be combined with concessions on enforcement in order to preserve diversity and to give green pioneering competitors enough time to expand. From a reverse angle, if authorities are keen to apply the regulation strictly and are prepared to face higher market concentration, then they should release the degree of stringency in order to enhance the prospects of transition to safer substitutes.
Q55|Mapping technological knowledge patterns: evidence from ocean energy technologies|This article investigates the technological knowledge pattern underlying the recent evolution in ocean energy technology (OET) trajectories, especially tidal and wave energy, ocean thermal energy, salinity gradient energy and offshore wind energy. Examination of the relational properties among the knowledge elements in the OET knowledge base, in particular, their substitutability and complementarity, allows a better understanding of the coherence of this knowledge base and the technological trajectories within the sector. We use patent data extracted from the Questel ORBIT database. The various technical options related to OETs are identified by Cooperative Patent Classification (CPC) codes and enable the construction of a dataset of OET patents granted between 2000 and 2015. We analyze the main trends emerging from the patent statistics and we construct a network of citations among OET patents and apply to it a main path algorithm. This allows a mapping of all possible streams of cumulative growth of technological knowledge and identification of the most important ones. We show that the knowledge base of OETs is split into two main families and technology patterns depending on whether the harnessing of ocean power and its conversion to renewable low-carbon electricity derive from physical or chemical science. OET trajectories are somewhat compartmentalized with few connections amongst them; however, there are links between some pivotal tidal and wave energy and offshore wind energy patents which have become the foundations to an OET knowledge base. By focusing specifically on the physics-based family of OETs, we can investigate the structural aspects of this knowledge base and analyze the aggregate level of complementarity and substitutability of its knowledge constituent. Our analysis partly confirms the increased coherence of the OET knowledge base over time but also highlights its fluctuating nature which in some ways mirrors the intermittent nature of ocean energy funding, further slowing consensus over designs which is key to commercialization.
Q55|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and research actors survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of the modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyzes the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration, and main topics studied. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues, and social aspects. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. There is a lack of recurrence, though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon-emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policymakers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q55|Agrarian distress in India: Possible solutions|Agrarian distress in India, built-up over time, has further deteriorated recently. At the height of the farm output, Indian farmers are a disappointed lot. Despite spectacular rise in agricultural production, they continue to languish in poverty. The underlying reasons for agrarian distress in India are: a) unviable agriculture; b) ineffective Minimum Support Prices (MSP) system; c) adverse terms of trade; d) rural indebtedness; and e) inefficient value chain in agriculture. There is a need to provide medium term solutions to the problem so that sub-optimal solution like loan waiver can be avoided. Among available solutions, government procurement operation covering all major crops may not be feasible, while price-hedging mechanism through derivative instruments like forward/future trading in farm products is yet to be popular among farmers. There is a great potential to protect farmers from distress sale through a composite insurance scheme, which can cover risks arising out of both crop failure and market failure. The value chain of agricultural products needs to be completely revamped to integrate farmers directly to the ultimate consumers. Long-term solution of the agrarian distress lies in improving farm productivity by a series of measures like mass irrigation programme through inter-linking of rivers, diversification of agriculture, smart farming by using latest technology. A scheme of exit route for distress farmers may go a long way in alleviating the situation.
Q55|Earth Observation in a Cost-Benefit Analysis Perspective: Cosmo SkyMed Satellites of the Italian Space Agency|Over the past decade, an increasing number of high-resolution satellite images have become available to public administration, policymakers and scientists, boosting the amount of information they can obtain to manage and analyse different issues. Satellites allow observing different natural and socio-economic phenomena that would be very hard and costly to monitor from the ground with the same optimal coverage, accuracy and consistency, providing valuable information both to the private and public sector. These phenomena include global societal challenges, such as climate change and air pollution, as well as local ones such as precision farming, urbanisation and transport infrastructures monitoring. This working paper aims at paving the way to a comprehensive assessment of the socio-economic impact of the Italian Space Agency (ASI) concerning the creation of innovative products and services generated by the Earth Observation (EO). Although the wide range of potential applications of EO satellite data, little is known about the effective use of Cosmo SkyMed (CSK) data so far. Most of the benefits related to their availability remain potential, unexpressed and undervalued. The analysis also intends to identify the institutional and organisational barriers that limit their full exploitation and formulate sounds policy recommendations to release the untapped potential of the Italian space downstream sector.
Q55|Environmental Policy and Innovation: A Decade of Research|Innovation is an important part of environmental policy, and encouraging innovation is often an explicit goal of policymakers. A large literature in environmental economics examines the links between environmental policy and innovation. Popp et al. (2010) provides an extensive review of the literature on environmental innovation. This paper updates that review, highlighting research published during the past decade, with a focus on empirical research examining links between environmental policy and environmentally friendly innovation. I highlight major trends in the literature, including an increased number of cross-country studies and a focus on the effect of different policy instruments on innovation. I include a discussion of the justifications and evidence for technology-specific policy incentives and present evidence on the effectiveness of government R&D spending. My review concludes with a discussion of three promising areas for new research on environmental innovation.
Q55|What Does an Electric Vehicle Replace?|The emissions reductions from the adoption of a new transportation technology depend on the emissions from the new technology relative to those from the displaced technology. We evaluate the emissions reductions from electric vehicles (EVs) by identifying which vehicles would have been purchased had EVs not been available. We do so by estimating a random coefficients discrete choice model of new vehicle demand and simulating counterfactual sales with EVs no longer subsidized or removed from the new vehicle market. Our results suggest that vehicles that EVs replace are relatively fuel-efficient: EVs replace gasoline vehicles with an average fuel economy of 4.2 mpg above the fleet-wide average and 12 percent of them replace hybrid vehicles. Federal income tax credits resulted in a 29 percent increase in EV sales, but 70 percent of the credits were obtained by households that would have bought an EV without the credits. By simulating alternative subsidy designs, we demonstrate the distributional and efficiency outcomes across different policy alternatives.
Q55|Addressing Climate Change through Price and Non-Price Interventions|Recognizing the importance of the second-best nature of economies, the Stern-Stiglitz report on carbon pricing departed from the recommendation of a single carbon price for all uses at all places and times. This paper provides some of the analytics behind these recommendations. First, I analyze the circumstances in which distributional concerns make desirable a tax or regulation inducing significant reductions in carbon usage in a carbon-intensive sector for which consumers are disproportionately rich. Such policies allow lower carbon prices elsewhere without exceeding carbon emission targets. The cost of the resulting production inefficiency may, under the identified circumstances, be less than the distributional benefits. The paper considers the circumstances in which such differential policies may be best implemented through regulation vs. differential pricing, as well as differential effects on political economy and norm setting. Second, I consider the effect of carbon price trajectories on induced innovation, providing general conditions under which the optimal carbon path should, at least eventually, be falling over time. Finally, I revisit the price-versus-quantity debate and highlight important aspects of the dynamic nature of the problem.
Q55|Should Electric Vehicle Drivers Pay a Mileage Tax?|In many countries the revenue from gasoline taxes is used to fund highways and other transportation infrastructure. As the number of electric vehicles on the road increases, this raises questions about the effectiveness and equity of this financing mechanism. In this paper, we ask whether electric vehicle drivers should pay a mileage tax. Though the gasoline tax has been traditionally viewed as a benefits tax, we take instead the perspective of economic efficiency. We derive a condition for the optimal electric vehicle mileage tax that highlights a key trade-off. On the one hand, there are externalities from driving including traffic congestion and accidents that imply a mileage tax is efficient. On the other hand, gasoline tends to be underpriced, so a low (or even negative) mileage tax might be justified to encourage substitution away from gasoline-powered vehicles. We then turn to an empirical analysis aimed at better understanding the current policy landscape for electric vehicles in the United States. Using newly available nationally-representative microdata we calculate that electric vehicles have reduced gasoline tax revenues by $250 million annually. We show that the foregone tax revenue is highly concentrated in a handful of states and is highly regressive, as most electric vehicles are driven by high-income households, and we discuss how this motivates and informs optimal policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q55|Policy approaches to incentivise sustainable plastic design|Plastics are an important material in the economy but present a challenge for waste management, resource efficiency and the environment. Low rates of recycling and high rates of environmental leakage represent key sustainability challenges for plastics as well as product designers and producers. The chemical composition of plastics, including their additives, create physical and toxicological barriers to ‘closing the loop’ on the material, and creates risks such as low quality secondary materials or ecological exposure to hazardous chemicals. A range of policy instruments can be applied to improve the sustainability of plastics, including regulations, market-based instruments, information and voluntary tools. The report reviews the current use of instruments in each of these categories, provides a number of good practice examples, such as product taxes and charges, eco-design standards, extended producer responsibility and environmental product labels, as well as discussing opportunities for their future applications.
Q55|Towards Green Growth in Emerging Market Economies: Evidence from Environmental Performance Reviews|This paper provides a cross-country review of progress towards green growth in selected emerging market economies that are members or partners of the OECD. It draws on the country studies conducted within the OECD Environmental Performance Review Programme for Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Turkey between 2013 and 2019. It presents the main achievements in the countries reviewed, along with common trends and policy challenges. It provides insights into the effectiveness and efficiency of green growth policy frameworks and measures, which may provide useful lessons for other OECD and partner countries.
Q55|Revisiting Allen's nitrogen hyphotesis from a climate perspective (1645-1740)|Building on Allen’s Nytrogen Hypothesis, this paper assesses the role of climate change in the English Agricultural Revolution. Our results show that, while Nitrogen-fixing plants, better cultivation and improved seeds explain half of the variation in yields, the changing climatic conditions characterizing the cooling period (1645-1715) and the subsequent warmer phase account for the remaining variation. Given that the colder and more humid climate existing during the second half of the 17th-century and early 18th-century negatively affected yields, farmers’ efforts during this period were even higher than what it is implied by the observed yields. Increasing temperatures in the next phase (starting c.1715), however, had a positive effect on agricultural productivity, so the role of the farmers in this stage has been previously over-rated.
Q55|Neither crowding in nor out: Public direct investment mobilising private investment into renewable electricity projects|Rapid structural change towards a low-carbon energy supply requires significant additional investments into innovative but high-risk low-carbon technologies. Mobilising greater private investments requires applying the right policy instruments, but while fiscal measures and regulation have been well researched, systematic quantitative evidence about the effect of public direct investment is lacking. Absent empirical evidence, contradictory theoretical arguments claim that such public (co-)investments either â€˜crowd outâ€™ or â€˜crowd inâ€™ private investors. In this paper we show that the macroeconomic concept of crowding out/in is inapplicable to sectoral studies such as of renewable electricity. Instead, both neoclassical microeconomics and evolutionary economics suggest public direct investment to have a positive effect due to either externalities or market creation effects. We also provide the first quantitative estimate of the effect of public direct investment on private investment into renewable electricity technologies for 17 countries in the period 2004-2014. Using feasible generalised least squares (FGLS) and static and dynamic generalised method of moments (GMM) estimators, we find that public investments not only have a positive but also consistently the largest effect on private investment flows relative to feed-in tariffs, taxes and renewable portfolio standards in general, and for wind and solar technologies separately. Implications for policy aimed at accelerating the low-carbon transition are discussed.
Q55|Environmental performances in Europe: An empirical analysis of the convergence among manufacturing sectors|?This study focuses on the environmental performances of the European manu?facturing industry. Our aim is to test the existence of both absolute and conditional ? ? ?-convergence as well as ? ? ?-convergence in the environmental productivity (i.e., for each sector, the ratio between value added and carbon dioxide emissions) of fourteen sectors for the period 1995-2009 using data from the WIOD database. The results support the hypothesis of ? ? ?-convergence and highlight other factors such as trade openness. In addition, the results indicate that the sectorial share of value added can affect sectorial environmental performances, as shown by a higher speed of convergence. No statistical evidence of ? ? ?-convergence is found.?
Q55|Knowledge sources and impacts on subsequent inventions: Do green technologies differ from non-green ones?|The paper contributes to our understanding of the nature and impact of green technological change. We focus on the search and impact spaces of green inventions, scrutinising the knowledge recombination processes leading to the generation of the invention and the impact of the invention on subsequent technological developments. Using a large sample of patents filed during 1980-2012, we analyse a set of established patent indicators that capture different aspects of the invention process. Technological heterogeneity is controlled for by comparing green and non-green technologies within similar narrow technological domains. Green technologies are found to be more complex and radical than non-green ones and to have a larger and more pervasive impact on subsequent inventions. However, the results show a variety of distinctive patterns with respect to the knowledge dimension considered. We derive some important policy implications.
Q55|Structural Changes and Sustainability. A Selected Review of the Empirical Evidence|The paper offers a review of selected topics in the empirical literature on structural change and sustainability. We focus on aspects of structural change that directly affect emissions and energy intensity: changes of the sectoral composition of economies, trade and international fragmentation of production, technological change and innovation, and demand. We identify several empirical facts. First, only a few countries have experienced a decoupling between growth and emissions, due to proportionately faster growth rather than greater energy efficiency. Second, the long-term shift from manufacturing to services has not led, in all cases, to the de-materialisation of economies and a lower environmental burden. Exploitation of energy efficiency increases depends on the ability of the service sectors to incorporate technical changes to reduce energy intensity. Third, global trade and energy and emissions intensity trends support the ‘pollution haven’ hypothesis, which predicts displacement of the environmental burden from developed to emerging countries. The pursuit by developing countries of a long-term strategy of ‘trading jobs for emissions' is likely to exacerbate the asymmetry related to emissions intensities between developed and less developed economies. The review should inform debate on environmental policy within the broader context of innovation and development policies.
Q55|Specialisation, diversification and the ladder of green technology development|This paper elaborates an empirical analysis of the temporal and geographical distribution of green technology, and on how specific country characteristics enable or thwart environmental inventive activities. Using patent data on 63 countries over the period 1970-2012 we identify key drivers of cross-country diversification and specialization. Our first finding is that countries diversify towards green technologies that are related to their existing competences. Notably, the maturity of the green technology matters more than the level of development of each country. The second main result is that countries move along cumulative paths of specialization, and towards more complex green technologies. Interestingly, the complexity of green technologies is not an obstacle to further specialisation. The latter holds also for developing countries that are most exposed to climate change hazards.
Q55|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
Q55|Impact of the Saitama Prefecture Target-Setting Emissions Trading Program on the Adoption of Low-Carbon Technology|This paper investigates the impacts of the Target-Setting Emissions Trading (TSET) Program launched by Saitama Prefecture in Japan in 2011 on the adoption of low-carbon technology. Using facility-level data on the manufacturing sector, the causal relationship between implementation of the program and investment in high-efficiency equipment is estimated. The results show that the TSET Program promoted the adoption of high-efficiency machines and devices for the first three years of the second compliance period, whereas the program did not spur investments in high-efficiency equipment during the first compliance period. These results suggest that the manufacturing facilities may have adopted relatively cheaper emissions reduction plans in the first compliance period such as improvements to equipment they already owned, whereas in the second compliance period, when the emissions targets became stricter, they allocated money and resources to introduce high-efficiency equipment. These findings indicate that the TSET Program succeeded in encouraging emissions reduction efforts by facilities in the manufacturing sector covered by the scheme, even though the program lacks penalties for noncompliance.
Q55|Energy Efficiency and Directed Technical Change: Implications for Climate Change Mitigation|I build a quantitative model of economic growth that can be used to evaluate the impact of environmental policy interventions on final-use energy consumption, an important driver of carbon emissions. In the model, energy demand is driven by endogenous and directed technical change (DTC). Energy supply is subject to increasing extraction costs. Unlike existing DTC models, I consider the case where multiple technological characteristics are embodied in each capital good, a formulation conducive to studying final-use energy. The model is consistent with aggregate evidence on energy use, efficiency, and prices in the United States. I examine the impact of new energy taxes and compare the results to the standard Cobb-Douglas approach used in the environmental macroeconomics literature, which is not consistent with data. When examining a realistic and identical path of energy taxes in both models, the DTC model predicts 22% greater cumulative energy use over the next century. I also use the model to study the macroeconomic consequences of R & D subsidies for new energy efficient technologies. I find large rebound effects that undo short-term reductions in energy use.
Q55|Perspectives of smart meters' roll-out in India: an empirical analysis of consumers' awareness and preferences|This papers focuses on the smart meters' roll-out in India - third largest economy, one of the developing countries with the fastest economic growth rate and third largest power producing nation. The Indian power system is weak and experiences severe problems and challenges that could be solved by means of the smart grid approach and broader implementation of smart meters (SM). Within this study, we focus on the consumers' preferences regarding SM. An empirical study has been conducted among Indian social media users, who are predicted to be potential early adopters or innovators in case of SM further market penetration. By dividing the respondents into a few market segments, the study highlights differences between consumers already having SM installed at their household, consumers in the process of installing SM, consumers who would like to have SM in the future, and consumers' preferences based on potential benefits and information availability. The study also outlines the profile of consumers who currently have SM installed in their household. Results show that tech-savviness of India's consumers, common access to the Internet for citizens, possession of smart phones by most of the population and ambitious goals of the Indian government, are a very productive mix for a nation wide roll-out of SM in India in the coming years.
Q55|Employment and performance effects of circular economy innovations|Circular economy (CE) describes an economic concept that aims at saving resources by minimizing the use of material and energy over the entire life-cycle or products, including repair, reuse and recycling. CE innovations help to realize the goals of a sustainable development and target both the environmental, economic and social dimensions of sustainability. This paper looks at the economic and social dimensions by investigating the performance and employment effects of CE innovations at the firm level. CE innovations such as the reduction of energy and material consumption or the recycling of waste, water or material may lead to cost savings which in turn can increase the competitiveness of the firm and raise demand for a firm's products. Our econometric analysis uses data of two waves of the German part of the Community Innovation Survey (CIS). The performance effects of CE innovations measured by the financial standing of a firm and by turnover growth tend to be positive. The results of quantile regressions show that this is also the case for employment effects.
Q55|Environmental innovation and firm profitability: An analysis with respect to firm size|This paper investigates the effect of environmental innovations on firm profitability with respect to differences between small and medium-sized (SME) and large (LE) enterprises. Using data from the Mannheim Innovation Panel (MIP) 2015, results show that, in general, SME benefit more from environmental innovations than LE. This effect is particularly strong for resource efficiency-improving innovations induced by regulation. These environmental innovations are significantly related to an increase in profits of SME, whilst related to a decrease in profits of LE. A robustness check with data from the MIP 2009, however, does not confirm this result as the effect for LE is insignificant and differences between the two groups cannot be found in this survey wave. A reason why negative effects for LE are observed in the MIP 2015 - but not in the MIP 2009 - might be that most LE had already exploited the potentials of environmental innovations when they were surveyed in the MIP 2015. This is supported by evidence suggesting that size-related differences in the MIP 2015 are driven by a negative relationship between LE's profits and environmental innovations related to externalities that were reduced by innovations in periods before.
Q55|Power struggle: Decarbonising the electricity sector|This report investigates the effects of select climate policies, non-climate policies, as well as political economy factors on the decarbonisation of electricity in OECD countries from 2000 to 2015. Effects are analysed on the three phases of decarbonisation: (1) increasing the share of renewables installed, (2) increasing the use of renewables in generation, and (3) reducing the emissions from electricity.
Q55|The Energy Efficiency Rebound Effect in General Equilibrium|We develop a stylized general equilibrium model to decompose the rebound effect of energy efficiency improvements into its partial and general equilibrium components. In our theoretical analysis, we identify key drivers of the general equilibrium rebound effect, including a composition channel, an energy price channel, a labor supply channel, and a growth channel. Based on numerical simulations with both the stylized model as well as a large-scale computable general equilibrium model of the global economy, we show that both general and partial equilibrium components of the rebound effect can be substantial. Our benchmark parameterization suggests a total rebound effect due to an exogenous energy efficiency improvement in the US manufacturing sector of 67% with roughly two-thirds occurring through the partial equilibrium rebound channel and the remaining one-third occurring through the general equilibrium rebound channel.
Q55|Does the utilization of information communication technology promote entrepreneurship: Evidence from rural China|Impacts on the probability of transition to entrepreneurship in rural China associated with the utilization of information communication technology (ICT) are estimated using longitudinal data from the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS) survey. We identify cell phone ownership and Internet use as proxy variables for ICT utilization and find that cell phone ownership and Internet use have positive impacts on entrepreneurship. After controlling for observables and time and regional fixed effects, cell phone users (Internet users) are 2.1 (6.2) percentage points more likely to engage in entrepreneurship than the others. Considering that the average entrepreneurship rate for rural households is only 9.2% in the sample, the influence of cell phone ownership and Internet use are very strong in the economic sense. Our results are robust to unobservable individual characteristics, model misspecification, and reverse causality of entrepreneurship to ICT utilization. Evidence also suggests that social network and information and knowledge acquisition play the mediating roles in the impact of ICT utilization on entrepreneurship.
Q55|Pengaruh Alat Mesin Pertanian Secara Economis Untuk Meningkatkan Efisiensi Pengolahan Tanah Di Djati Gede Sumedang<BR>[The Economic Effect of Agricaltural Mechanization on Effeciency of Tillage in Djati Gede Sumedang]|Abstrack Tractor is one of an agricultural tool commonly used farmers to reverse, break down and friable land. In there were plow in agriculture had been a custom that is done farmers in order to get of the soil quality, both in terms of texture and its structure. The success of development of agricultural mechanization dependent on the condition agroklimat, economic system, and cultural in line with economic opportunities the application of tools and machinery agricultural. The study is done in regional land Sumedang Djati Gede by using the method survey on Tuesday 14 November 2018, while in land management done by means of mechanical use tractor patterned spiral. The results of the study showed that the land mixed with way plowed use tractor produce a state of land very friable so production the farm able to help increase the society economy.
Q55|Nilai Ekonomi Tanaman Kelapa Sawit (Elaeis guinensis jack) Untuk Rakyat Indonesia<BR>[Economic Value of Palm Oil (Elaeis guinensis) for Indonesian People]|Palm oil provides the highest economic income to the country's economy. Based on the results of studies obtained from various sources it can be concluded that the Palm Oil Plant (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) Originates from Nigeria, West Africa. Oil palm is a superior plantation commodity and Indonesia. Plants whose main products consist of palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel oil (PKO) have high economic value and are one of the biggest contributors to foreign exchange compared to other plantation commodities. Indonesia and Malaysia are major exporters of palm oil, which each have an export of 15.7 and 15.1 million tons. The main importing countries of palm oil are India, China and the European Union, which each import 6.7 million, 6 , 3 million and 4.6 million tons. It is alleged that there is a lack of flexibility in the management of oil palm plantations in particular so that oil palm development needs to prioritize the national economic interests of the Indonesian people. .
Q55|Decomposition analysis of sustainable green technology inventions in China|Sustainable green technology is an important contributor to creating a sustainable society by simultaneously promoting environmental protection and economic development. This study examines the determinants of sustainable green technology invention in China, with a focus on the differences in green technology development priorities in each five-year plan period. This study uses patent publication data in a patent decomposition analysis framework. We find that sustainable green patent publications increased due to efficiency improvements, the prioritization of sustainable green patents, an increased R&D expenditure share and economic growth, especially during periods of gradual economic development in China. Additionally, we find that the relative priority of R&D shifted from renewable energy technology to pollution abatement and other sustainable green technology in the 12th five-year plan. The different R&D priority trends for sustainable green technologies among the five-year plans can be used to formulate effective policies that promote sustainable green technology invention.
Q55|Budidaya Tanaman Kelapa (Cocos nucifera) Ditinjau Dari Segi Ekonomi<BR>[Economic Review of Coconut (Cocos nucifera) Cultivation in Indonesia]|Coconut plants (Cocos nucifera L.) are one of the commodities that have high economic value if managed properly. Indonesia itself is a coconut producing country, because as a multipurpose plant that has given life to farmers in Indonesia, this is evidenced by the level of mastery of coconut plants in Indonesia, which is 98% is smallholder plantations. The development of world average coconut production during the 1999-2004 period reached 52.5 thousand tons / year. Of all the producing countries in the world, Indonesia is the largest producer country, with an average production of 15.6 thousand tons / year, the Philippines ranks second at 13.5 thousand tons / year. The main reason for making coconut a commercial commodity is that all parts of coconut can be used for various purposes and have social, cultural and economic roles in the lives of Indonesian people. Coconut products that are quite potential to be traded on the international market are copra, copra cake, shell charcoal Crude coconut Oil. Coconut oil is the most valuable downstream product of coconut fruit and is widely used as an industrial raw material or as cooking oil. Domestic and export coconut oil needs continue to increase from year to year, this shows that coconut has an important role in economic development and sources of foreign exchange. Based on the analysis of cultivation, it can be seen that the investment is large and can be profitable only in less than six years, not including other benefits obtained other than fruit. Therefore, coconut cultivation is one of the most profitable alternatives.
Q55|Production Technology and Carbon Emission: Long run relation with Short run Dynamics|What is the role of technological progress on reduction of CO2 emission? Question of linkage among carbon emission, income and technological progress is the main focuses on recent research area. Using vector error correction model (VECM), this paper investigates the long run relation with short run dynamics among CO2 emission, technological progress and economic growth. This study observes a specific kind of causality running from technological progress to CO2 emission in the USA during 1963 – 2010, while past income is the cause of rising carbon emission. Policy makers should emphasis on R & D for updated production technology which helps to reduce CO2 emission with raising income. Technological progress is the central force that causes income growth as well as emission reduction. Continuous change and adaption of new and updated technology is the main driving force toward sustainable development.
Q55|The Role of Universities in the Knowledge Triangle Model on the Example of EIT Activities|Background. For universities, it is essential to develop in the direction of market expectations. It is necessary to enter into cooperation with entrepreneurs which allows technology transfer to create innovations. The knowledge triangle model is a concept that involves creating relationships between universities, research institutions and enterprises. This idea is very important for European policy and is implemented by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT). However, it is worth checking whether it is actually being implemented. Research Aims. To check if the approach of the knowledge triangle is used in practice by entities set up under the EIT. Another research aim is an exploration of the current directions in which the university's cooperation with other bodies is heading, and if this has an impact on raising the level of innovation in Europe. Methodology. A look at the model of cooperation between universities and the environment and search for an appropriate framework of benefit from this kind of collaboration on scientific literature review. Moreover, the desk research regarding the EIT Food - one of the European initiatives in the food sector. Key findings. The analyses carried out allow us to state that the concept of the knowledge triangle is not just a theoretical idea. The concept has its application in practice. It was also identified that universities are the main engine of all undertaken activities in the field of education, research and innovation.
Q55|Dynamic Efficiency in Experimental Emissions Trading Markets with Investment Uncertainty|Abstract This study employs a laboratory experiment to assess the performance of tradable permit markets on dynamic efficiency arising from cost-reducing investment. The permit allocation rule is the main treatment variable, with permits being fully auctioned or grandfathered. The experimental results show significant investment under both allocation rules in the presence of ex ante uncertainty over the actual investment outcome. However, auctioning permits generally provides stronger incentives to invest in R&D, leading to greater dynamic efficiency compared to grandfathering.
Q55|Green Energy Finance in Australia and New Zealand|We explore the history and current status of green energy finance in Australia and New Zealand. Although both countries have enviable renewable energy resources with a 100% renewable mix considered feasible, the two countries present highly contrasting contexts for energy finance. Currently, and largely for historical reasons, renewables make up over 80% of the electricity capacity in New Zealand, whereas in Australia this is 17%. Interestingly, between them and over time, the two countries have employed most of the important policy tools available to incentivize renewables and green energy finance (e.g., carbon taxes, carbon trading, a green investment bank, a green certification market, and feed-in-tariffs). Despite this, we show that between 2004 and 2017 both countries did not meet their potential in terms of renewables and have lower levels of green energy investment relative to gross domestic product per capita than many other developed countries. The Australian and New Zealand context provides many lessons for other jurisdictions—ranging from the need for cross-party and regulatory commitment to energy transition, to the need for policy stability. Indeed, a key issue in Australia and New Zealand is the challenge of designing electricity markets that support energy transition and the investment that it requires. Incumbents in both jurisdictions are fearful of a “death spiral” induced by distributed power, and in Australia political instability and market design issues contributed to a major energy crisis in 2017. However, the crisis, the Paris Agreement, and the associated impetus of new governments in both countries suggest green energy investment is set to increase in the coming years.
Q55|Driven by Change: Commercial Drivers’ Acceptance and Perceived Efficiency of Using Light-Duty Electric Vehicles in Germany|In this paper, we examine to what extent commercial drivers accept the substitution of conventional cars with light-duty e-vehicles (LDEVs) by conducting a cross-sectional survey at Deutsche Post, a major German postal delivery service provider. Specifically, we explore drivers’ acceptance from two perspectives. First, we investigate whether drivers are more satisfied with the LDEVs than with the conventional vehicles. Second, we question whether the EVs increase drivers’ perceived efficiency. Combining these two perspectives, we show that the greater the drivers’ overall satisfaction with LDEVs, the higher is the drivers’ perceived efficiency. We prove this by means of latent measures, such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, using adaptations of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model and Rogers’ Diffusion of Innovation Theory to form our Unified Technology Acceptance Model. Findings suggest that, on average, drivers are slightly more satisfied with their assigned LDEVs than with the available conventional cars. If drivers were able to choose their preferred vehicles, the majority of them would favor LDEVs. We detect statistically significant patterns of latent measures affecting perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of LDEVs. While this paper focuses on German delivery service employees, the methodology presented here could easily be applied to any enterprise in the growing logistics sector electrifying its car fleet. Hence, our contributions are valuable for transportation research, and more specifically, to all potential commercial EV drivers, e.g., our insights might be relevant for approximately 500,400 drivers employed in the German logistics sector alone.
Q55|Open Innovation System and Entrepreneurship: A case study of the Offshore Renewable Energy|This article examines the innovation in the offshore renewable energy (ORE) industry using Open Innovation System (OIS), platforms and network perspective. Despite the benefits of ORE, Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs account for up to one-third of total wind energy project lifecycle expenditure requiring relationships with multiple external partners to improve the supply chain and O&M activities. Therefore, management of the O&M activities of the supply chain and logistics has become an excellent place to drive efficiency and reduce cost thereby creating innovative products and services, business clusters and job opportunities. Findings show how strategic resources help offshore companies to reduce cost and achieve environmental, economic and social benefit derived from ORE. The OIS is used to explain the importance of new resources in technology, knowledge sharing and relationships, and stresses the role of stakeholders in addressing the challenges. The limitation of this study is related to reliance on secondary data. However, it provided an opportunity to elaborate on OIS theory and reinforces the importance of knowledge sharing, collaboration and network advantage. Overall, this provided insights into the constituent resources needed for successful OIS, regional entrepreneurship and helps move renewable energy research from a technological advancement challenges to a problem of strategic resources and relational capabilities.
Q55|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation| This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q55|Bridging the gap: Do fast-reacting fossil technologies facilitate renewable energy diffusion?|The diffusion of renewable energy in the power system implies high supply variability. Lacking economically viable storage options, renewable energy integration is possible thanks to the presence of modern mid-merit fossil-based technologies, which act as back-up capacity. This paper discusses the role of modern fossil-based power generation technologies in supporting renewable energy investments. We study the deployment of these two technologies conditional on all other drivers in 26 OECD countries between 1990 and 2013. We show that moving from the first to the third quartile of the distribution of modern fossil technologies is associated with an increase in yearly renewable energy investment of between 6 and 14 kW per thousand people, on average and ceteris paribus. This is a sizeable effect, considering that average yearly renewable capacity addition in our sample are around 12 kW per thousand people. These findings are robust to different econometric specifications, various definitions of modern fossil technologies and are stronger for wind, which is more intermittent and for which the mismatch between supply and demand is more marked. Our analysis points to the substantial indirect costs of renewable energy integration and highlights the complementarity of investments in different generation technologies for a successful decarbonization process.
Q55|Does host market regulation induce cross‐border environmental innovation?|This paper evaluates the effect of host‐country environmental policy stringency on the offshoring of green patents for 2000 top world R&D performers. It is shown that a more stringent environmental regulation triggers patent offshoring in the field of green technologies. Results are robust to various different specifications, to alternative definitions of innovation offshoring and of regulatory restrictions, to controls for firm and country‐level characteristics and to the consideration of possible endogeneity of regulation. We interpret these findings as evidence that MNEs can take advantage from their exposure to multiple institutional settings, reducing the costs of, and increasing the payoff from, green innovation offshoring. It is also suggested that R&D subsidies and non‐market‐based regulatory measures are more important than market‐based instruments as drivers of cross‐border environmental innovation.
Q55|Does energy price affect energy efficiency? Cross-country panel evidence|In this paper, we analyze the relationship between energy intensity and energy price in a panel of 120 countries over 34 years, from 1980 to 2013. We use information on energy intensity and real oil price, and merge it with macroeconomic data on the countries' structural characteristics. We assess their long-run relationship and direction of causality using panel cointegration tests and dynamic panel data models. We identify a statistically significant, but weak negative effect of real oil price on energy intensity, which corresponds to a positive effect of energy price on energy efficiency. We also show significant, large regional differences in this relationship. We thus posit that a global policy aimed at increasing the price of oil would induce a limited increase in average energy efficiency through a more efficient use of energy, but this increase would differ considerably across regions around the world.
Q55|System Transition and Structural Change Processes in the Energy Efficiency of Residential Sector: Evidence from EU Countries|This paper aims to analyse the evolution of energy efficiency systems for the residential sector of EU countries over the past twenty years and the associated process of structural change occurred in EU economies. To this purpose, we develop a set of indicators to measure some significant characteristics of the energy efficiency systems and map European countries in terms of four dimensions: energy system, innovation system, policy mix design and export competitiveness. Building on these indicators we develop a cluster analysis identifying non-arbitrary homogeneous country groups according to several characteristics in order to investigate the co-evolution of technological trajectories, energy use performance and structural change in this specific domain. Results suggest the distinction of EU countries into four groups, that are individually and comparatively scrutinized shedding light on how the four dimensions here considered dynamically evolved and interacted within and across countries. Empirical findings reveal that the design of the domestic policy mix may play a key role in shaping technological trajectories and structural change processes that in turns allow an increase in external competitiveness performance. Such positive impact appears to be closely related to the quality and quantity of international relationships with main economic partners.
Q55|The Impact of Climate Change on U.S. Agriculture: The Roles of Adaptation Techniques and Emissions Reductions|We investigate the impact of climate change on U.S. agricultural productivity using county-level yield and weather data from 1950 to 2015. We present two new methods of modelling how producers adapt agricultural techniques to harsh temperatures, including a new panel data estimator that allows for two-dimensional fixed-effects in slopes. We find evidence of adaptation to geographic and temporal variation in climate, but it has stalled since 1989. We show that adaptation implies fixed-effects slope heterogeneity in the relationship between crop yield and temperature, and ignoring this leads to biased estimates of temperature sensitivity. We use our estimates to project corn yields to 2100 using a variety of climate models and emission scenarios, and find that unmitigated climate change will have severe effects on yields. Our models indicate that adaptation techniques can mitigate 10 to 45% of the damage, but significant emissions reductions can mitigate far more (i.e., 42 to 91%).
Q55|Attitudes Toward Climate Policies in a Macrodynamic Model of the Economy|In a recent article published in Ecological Economics, Guarini and Porcile (2016) expanded the Balance-of-Payments Constraint (BoPC) growth model in order to address the challenges posed by greenhouse gas emissions suggesting a way in which environmental variables can be included in the structure of this family of models. Building on their set up, we incorporate how people with di¤erent environmental attitudes or sentiments influence each other and contribute to the design of environmental policies. We detail the concept of transition probabilities for the agent's switching from pro- to anti-enviromental positions and vice-versa and discuss the macroeconomic results that follow. Numerical simulations allow us to investigate in more detail the implications of the validity of Porter's hypothesis as well as decoupling conditions.
Q55|Academic Inventors and the Antecedents of Green Technologies. A Regional Analysis of Italian Patent Data|This work investigates the knowledge generation mechanisms underlying the creation of green technologies (GTs) in Italian NUTS 3 regions. We hypothesise that local knowledge spillovers from non-green technological areas positively influence the generation of inventions in green domains, since the latter occur as the outcome of a recombination process among a wide array of technological domains. In addition, we hypothesise that the involvement of academic inventors in patenting activity bears positive effects on the generation of GTs, because inventors are able to manage the recombination process across different, and not necessarily related, technological domains. We also investigate whether academic inventors mitigate the impact of local spillovers from non-green knowledge on the generation of GTs. The results suggest that local spillovers from non-green technological domains as well as the involvement of academic inventors in patenting activity bear positive direct effects on the generation of GTs. We also find that academic inventors compensate for local scarcity of spillovers from non-green technological areas.
Q55|Information leverage: The adoption of clean cooking fuel in Bhutan|The outcome of household choice depends on the private information available to an agent, particularly in terms of costs and benefits. This study examines the role of information in the adoption of clean cooking fuel in Bhutan. We use a rural subsample of nationally representative data from the 2012 Bhutan Living Standard Survey (BLSS) conducted in all twenty districts. We estimate a bivariate probit model to control for the potentially endogenous information variable. The results indicate that households that have access to information are approximately 39% more likely to adopt clean cooking fuel. Similarly, households are 49% less likely to adopt dirty fuel (firewood) when exposed to information. Other factors such as education, the electricity supply, access to liquidity and the distance to the market are important factors that contribute to adopting clean cooking fuel. The results also show that the effect of information varies depending on the level of education of the household heads, thus highlighting the importance of accounting for the level of education of information recipients when designing a similar information provision.
Q55|Water Innovation and Water Governance: Adaptive Responses to Regulatory Change and Extreme Weather Events|This paper investigates the effect of federal and state level regulatory changes with respect to drinking water quality, water pollution and water quantity in the United States on the level of relevant technological innovation. We construct and use a unique dataset covering major amendments and additions to regulated contaminants lists as stipulated in the legislative acts most relevant to the policy area we study, along with a list of technological patents pertaining to water quality and quantity over a period of more than 30 years. We find in general the impact of water regulation on innovation to be both statistically and economically significant.
Q55|Eco-Innovation: Drivers, Barriers and Effects – A European Perspective|This paper determines the key drivers, barriers and effects of eco-innovation, in comparison to innovation in general. It further distinguishes between different types of eco-innovations to better capture their heterogeneous nature. It uses two different data sets (1) the Community Innovation Survey 2014 (CIS-2014) for a large sample of EU Member States, further split up into three groups in accordance with their eco-innovation performance; (2) the German Mannheim Innovation Panel to address additional drivers the CIS-2014 is unable to capture. Results show that both R&D investments and complementary fixed capital investments are key drivers of eco-innovation, with differences across country groups. Results from the German sample further emphasise that expected future demand, rising costs for energy and other resources and the wish to improve one’s reputation and the need to meet industry standards help spur eco-innovation, while public policy is only of limited importance. In contrast, international market orientation turns out to be a barrier for eco-innovation. By and large, eco‑innovations also have a productivity-enhancing effect which is however lower as compared to innovations in general.
Q55|New Education Models for the Future of Work Force|This paper addresses the directions to follow when designing new educational systems and school-to-work transition regimes to adhere to the needs of Industry 4.0. Although a high level of general education will be important for its training content to develop adaptability, it is not the only component to develop. What will be more and more important are work related skills, both the general ones and the ones which are job-specific and need, therefore, on-the-job training to develop. This will require important educational reforms to favour an ever-better integration between educational institution and the world of work. Young people and their families alone will not be able to adapt on their own to the new human capital requirements of industry 4.0 productions. A new framework for an integrated action by governments, firms, educational institutions and families is needed to smooth the school-to-work in the future. The duality principle is the basis for a strong diversification of the supply of education.
Q55|Innovative green-technology SMEs as an opportunity to promote financial de-risking|The authors recommend that the G20 target innovative green-technology SMEs as an opportunity to promote financial de-risking while addressing Paris Agreement commitments and UN Sustainable Development Goals. This should be achieved by creating signals for private investors through: (1) a reporting system that can help monitor the scale-up of green-technology SMEs; (2) the use of public funds to signal innovative green-technology SMEs to investors; and (3) the inclusion of SMEs in the design of green finance platforms. By implementing these recommendations, the G20 will ensure that innovative, low-carbon SMEs become attractive, low(er)-risk investment opportunities for the private sector.
Q55|Two years later: The EU circular economy package. An update|The European Commission aims to push forward the concepts of 'recycle, repair and re-use' as well as waste avoidance. Two years after adopting the Circular Economy Package, EU institutions finally agreed on new EU waste rules. Despite lower recycling targets as originally envisaged, most countries still have to push recycling to meet the goals. A single method of determining recycling rates was also decided, but an exemption rule will continue to allow for disparate recycling rates. Only ten countries including Germany are on track with their currently reported recycling rates to achieve the first goal of 55 per cent by 2025, assuming they keep up their recycling efforts of the past decade. Germany is leading the recycling hierarchy with 66 per cent, much more than on EU average. However, according to the new calculation method, Germany's recycling rate would drop to between 47 and 52 per cent. In this case, the German recycling rate would have to rise between 0.7 and 0.9 percentage points annually until 2035 to achieve 65 per cent. Looking back, Germany only managed 0.5 percentage points annually over the past decade based on the current method. Hence, Germany would have to push recycling and focus on more high-quality recycling. Fortunately, the country is a role model not only for its long recycling tradition and modern waste management, but also for its global leadership in recycling technologies.
Q55|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q55|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation|This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while commandand-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q55|Free Trade Agreements with Environmental Standards|In this paper, we investigate the effects of a free trade agreement (FTA) with environmental standards between Northern and Southern countries, with explicit considerations for transferring clean technology and enforcing reduced emissions. Southern producers benefit greatly by having access to a Northern market without barriers, while they are reluctant to use new high-cost, clean technology provided by the North. Thus, environmentally conscious Northern countries should design an FTA where Southern countries provide sufficient benefits for the membership while imposing tighter enforcement requirements. Since including too many Southern countries dilutes the benefits of being a member of the FTA, it is in the best interest of the North to limit the number of Southern memberships while requiring strict enforcement of emissions reduction. This may result in unequal treatment among the Southern countries. We provide a quantitative evaluation of FTA policies by using a numerical example.
Q55|Electrical Bus Mobility in the EU and China: Technological, Ecological and Economic Policy Perspectives|The analysis provides a hybrid techno-economic perspective on EU and China e-bus development dynamics. China is a leading global electric bus user – particularly in certain provinces. In Europe, the European Commission has started an electric bus initiative and several EU member countries have tried to achieve progress with regard to their own municipal e-bus fleets. While the economic analysis shows that e-bus innovation and diffusion dynamics can be influenced by government procurement policy, it is also obvious that certain pricing schemes in e-bus (mixed) municipal mobility networks are not successfully promoting clean e-bus expansion. A key issue is that various grant schemes depress the prices for used e-buses which in turn creates additional risk for e-bus leasing arrangements. Industrial policy aspects as well innovation policy face challenges in the e-bus context. China’s regional e-bus approaches have shown considerable success and part of China’s patent dynamics supports e-bus expansion perspectives. From a technological perspective, there are several alternative modes of e-bus mobility whose technological and economic advantages have to be explored in the context of the characteristics of local and regional bus routes. A very important technological element of e-mobility concerns technical aspects of battery charging – for example, cycle lifetime, power density, charging time and safety. The price dynamics of battery packs is rather high and should stimulate the expansion of e-bus mobility in Europe and China. One key problem faced by Europe and Asia is the challenge of common technical standards. As regards Germany’s and the UK’s position as a potential lead markets for e-bus mobility – or a similar positioning of a network of EU cities – much depends on adequate new policy initiatives. The emissions reductions which could be achieved by transitioning to 100% e-bus mobility in the EU would amount to an estimated 1.3% cut in terms of emissions of the transport sector (without aviation).
Q55|European Industrial Energy Intensity: The Role of Innovation 1995-2009|We investigate the direct role of technological innovation and other influencing factors on industry-level energy intensity based on a sample of 12 industries across 17 EU countries over 1995–2009. We develop an innovative industry-level patent dataset and find compelling evidence that patent stock negatively influences industrial energy intensity. Using a fixed effects estimator, we find a much stronger effect on energy-intensive industries with an estimated coefficient of -0.138 almost double that of less energy-intensive industries (estimated at -0.085). While our results show energy price remains the major determinant of energy intensity, the chemicals industry appears to be more susceptible to energy prices relative to other energy-intensive industries that are covered by the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). Our study reveals that asymmetric response of energy intensity to energy prices in which price rises between 2004 and 2008 accounts for more change in efficiency than when prices fall. We also explore regional differences, notably that carbon tax policy in Northern European countries, which began in the early 1990s, is responsible for a significant fraction of the decline in energy intensity in Northern Europe.
Q55|Adopt or Innovate: Understanding Technological Responses to Cap-and-Trade|Environmental regulations have consistently been found to spur innovation in ‘clean’ technologies, with one significant exception. Past cap-and-trade programs have encouraged adoption of existing pollution control technologies, but had little effect on innovation. Several explanations have been offered, including secondary market failures and a lack of polluter sophistication. In this paper I argue that it likely has more to do with the state of the technologies. Using a newly constructed panel of British companies, I show that the European carbon market - the world’s largest cap-and-trade program - has, contrary to past experience, encouraged innovation rather than adoption. I discuss how these contrasting findings can be reconciled, and the implications for planned reforms.
Q55|Optimal pollution control in a mixed oligopoly with research spillovers|We study optimal pollution abatement under a mixed oligopoly when firms engage in emissions‐reducing research and development (R&D) with imperfect appropriation. The regulator uses a tax to curb emissions. Results show that in a mixed oligopoly, the public firm has positive emissions reduction in equilibrium; however, emissions reductions of the private firm could be positive or zero. Under certain conditions, the optimal pollution tax is positive; otherwise, the tax reverts to a subsidy. Comparing mixed and private duopolies, privatisation leads to reductions in R&D and output, but to an increase in overall emissions, so privatisation tends to make the environment worse.
Q55|The energy efficiency rebound effect in general equilibrium|We develop a stylized general equilibrium model to decompose the rebound effect of energy efficiency improvements into its partial and general equilibrium components. In our theoretical analysis, we identify key drivers of the general equilibrium rebound effect, including a composition channel, an energy price channel, a labor supply channel, and a growth channel. Based on numerical simulations with both the stylized model as well as a large-scale computable general equilibrium model of the global economy, we show that both general and partial equilibrium components of the rebound effect can be substantial. Our benchmark parameterization suggests a total rebound effect due to an exogenous energy efficiency improvement in the US manufacturing sector of 67% with roughly two-thirds occurring through the partial equilibrium rebound channel and the remaining one-third occurring through the general equilibrium rebound channel
Q55|Do Pilot and Demonstration Projects Work?|Pilot and demonstration (P&D) projects are commonly deployed to catalyze early adoption of technology, but are poorly understood in terms of mechanism and impact. We conceptually distinguish unique functions of pilots and demonstrations, then examine whether they accelerate green building adoption. To identify effects of P&Ds on adoption, we develop a difference-in-difference-in-differences strategy, exploiting variation in location, technologies, and timing of P&D projects. Results indicate a 12% increase in adoption rates within markets affected by P&D projects. Further analyses examine mechanisms driving this effect. Subsequent results suggest green building demonstration projects create learning externalities, proliferating technology diffusion under certain conditions.
Q55|¿Qué determina la adopción de tecnologías para la generación de energías renovables entre países?|Este trabajo provee evidencia de que el efecto del cambio tecnológico inducido es un determinante principal de la adopción de las energías solar y eólica. Este estudio hace uso de una estrategia empírica basada en una función de demanda de inputs derivada del proceso de maximización de una función de producción de electricidad. La implementación de este modelo permite entender los principales mecanismos que afectan la decisión de adoptar energías solar y eólica por parte de los productores de electricidad. Para esto, se utiliza una base de datos tipo panel de 29 países de la OECD entre 1990 y 2015. Con ello, se comprueban tres hipótesis: 1) efecto de sustitución puro entre renovables y combustibles fósiles; 2) cambio tecnológico inducido e innovación; 3) Impuestos al combustible. Los resultados muestran que el efecto de cambio tecnológico e innovación es uno de los principales mecanismos que afecta la adopción de las energías solar y eólica.
Q55|Public research in Nanotechnology in Piedmont (Italy)|Nanotechnologies and nanosciences are a relevant interdisciplinary field in sciences and technologies. They belong to the group of Key Enabling Technologies, and are considered a general purpose and a disruptive technological field. This working paper describes the research activities in nanotechnologies performed inside the regional research system of Piedmont, Italy. After performing a bibliometric search using a tested and reliable methodology, the database of scientific works is analysed. Several features of the nanotech scientific production of the regional research system are analysed: numerical evolution, scientific topics and subject of the works, authors and institutions. The obtained results are commented in the framework of regional systems of innovation. At the end of the analysis, the paper offers comments and draws conclusions.
Q55|Drivers of renewable technology adoption in the household sector|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we undertake a simultaneous assessment of the importance of factors that are individually found to be significant for the adoption of renewable energy systems by households but are not yet tested jointly. These are sociodemographic and housing characteristics, environmental concern, personality traits, and economic factors; i.e. the expected costs of and revenues from the investment. Our results suggest that household decisions to invest in photovoltaic systems and solar thermal facilities are mainly driven by economic factors. Taking account of sociodemographic and housing characteristics, environmental concern, or personality traits has comparatively little relevance, while the quantitative nexus between the decision to invest and returns on the investment is robust to their inclusion.
Q55|Too Good to Be True? How Time-Inconsistent Renewable Energy Policies Can Deter Investments|The transition towards low-carbon economies requires massive investments into renewable energies, which are commonly supported through regulatory frameworks. Yet, governments can have incentives - and the ability - to deviate from previously-announced support once those investments have been made, which can deter investments. We analyze a renewable energy regulation game, apply a model of time-inconsistency to renewable energy policy and derive under what conditions governments have incentives to deviate from their commitments. We analyze the effects of various support policies and deployment targets and explain why Spain conducted retrospective changes in the period 2010-2013 whereas Germany stuck to its commitments.
Q55|Renewable Energy Policy in the Age of Falling Technology Costs|Cost of renewable energies have dropped, approaching wholesale power price levels. As a result, the role of renewable energy policy design is shifting – from covering incremental costs towards facilitating risk-hedging. An analytical model of the financing structure of renewable investment projects is developed to assess this effect und used to compare different policy design choices: contracts for differences, sliding premia, fixed premia and a setting without dedicated remuneration mechanism. The expected benefit for electricity consumers from reduced risk and financing costs is approximated at the example of a 2030 scenario for Germany. Policies like sliding premia, previously evaluated as providing low-risk investment environments, provide for less risks hedging, when technology costs approach wholesale power prices. Contracts for differences provide in all scenarios the most effective hedge for investors against power prices uncertainty, enabling low-cost financing and reducing costs for consumers, while also hedging electricity consumers against high power prices.
Q55|The nexus between climate negotiations and low-carbon innovation: a geopolitics of renewable energy patents|Intellectual property is a central issue in the climate negotiations. On the one hand, it shapes and encourages innovation in low-carbon technologies. On the other hand, it reduces access to these technologies by giving patent holders market power. We analyze the interactions between climate negotiations and the acquisition of patents on renewable energy technologies. First, we recall the geopolitical nature of intellectual property and explain how it is modified by the particularities of low-carbon innovation. The second part of this article is devoted to an inventory of the production of inventions in renewable energy technologies (RETs). In particular, we focus on the relative technological advantages of countries and the value of patented inventions. Major changes are observed in the geographical distribution of low-carbon innovation during the 2000s and they foreshadow a reorganization of the geopolitical balances of innovation in renewable energies.
Q55|Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and stakeholders survey analysis|This article studies the integration of variable renewable energy sources (RES) into power networks. The main goal is to confront the contents and trends of scientific literature with the eyes and projects of researchers on future topics and issues to be solved, especially in terms of modeling of electrical systems. The analysis relies on a bibliometric study of the Scopus database on the topic and on an online survey sent to the corresponding authors of the identified papers. The paper analyses the dynamics of publication, clusters of collaboration and main studied topics. It then identifies potential research leads, among which unresolved challenges regarding technical aspects, markets and financing issues and social aspects. The paper concludes on the policy implications of the mentioned results. The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems. Some recurring lacks though, such as the impact of emergent technologies or the development of substitute low carbon emitting technology (other than solar and wind), need to be addressed. The paper also advocates the need for a systemic vision, for both research and policy makers that goes beyond the sole power system.
Q55|Specialization, diversification and environmental technology life-cycle|The paper analyses whether and to what extent regional related and unrelated variety matter for the development of green technology, and whether their influence differs over the technology life-cycle. Using patent and socio-economic data on a thirty- year (1980-2009) panel of US States, our study finds that unrelated variety is a positive predictor of green innovative activities. When unpacked over the life cycle, we find that unrelated variety is the main driver of green technology development in early stages while related variety becomes more prominent as the technology enters into maturity.
Q55|European Industrial Energy Intensity: The Role of Innovation 1995-2009|No abstract is available for this item.
Q55|Testing theoretical explanations for investment behaviour in the Dutch beam trawler fishery in the North Sea| In this study, we investigate whether the neoclassical economic theory, capital market frictions or preference-based theory can explain investment behaviour in the Dutch beam trawler fishery in the North Sea. By presenting a number of estimations, we show that vessels conducting pulse fishing invest substantially more than similar vessels undertaking conventional fishing, even after controlling for differences in such variables as capital stock, prices, profits and quotas. One possible explanation for this result is that vessel owners may obtain a separate benefit from investing in pulse fishing.
Q55|Accelerating diffusion of climate-friendly technologies: A network perspective|We introduce a methodology to estimate the determinants of the formation of technology diffusion networks from the patterns of technology adoption. We apply this methodology to wind energy, which is one of the key technologies in climate change mitigation. Our results emphasize that, in particular, long-term relationships as measured by economic integration are key determinants of technological diffusion. Specific support measures are less relevant, at least to explain the extensive margin of diffusion. Our results also highlight that the scope of technological diffusion is much broader than what is suggested by the consideration of CDM projects alone, which are particularly focused on China and India. Finally, the network of technological diffusion inferred from our approach highlights the central role of European countries in the diffusion process and the absence of large hubs among developing countries.
Q55|Technology Diffusion and Climate Policy: A Network Approach and its Application to Wind Energy|The role of technology transfer in the mitigation of climate change has been strongly emphasized in the recent policy debate. This paper offers a network-based perspective on the issue. First, we propose a methodology to infer from technology adoption data the network of diffusion and apply it to a detailed dataset on wind energy technologies installed globally since the 1980s. We then perform a statistical analysis of the network. It highlights a relatively inefficient organization, characterized in particular by the weakness of South-South links, which leads to relatively long lags in the diffusion process. Against this background, we characterize optimal transfer/seeding strategies for an agent that aims to introduce a new technology in a developing country in view of further diffusion. Our results suggest in particular that CDM projects have been too concentrated in large emerging economies and that developed countries should put a stronger weight on the positive externalities in terms of technology transfer of cooperating with less prominent developing countries.
Q55|Water as freedom in the Brazilian Amazon|Universal access to the commons, such as to clean water, might be seen as a strong challenge to development as freedom. Beyond water scarcity, several regions are already suffering from lack of access, even where water is abundant. Meanwhile, climate change, overpopulation and agricultural demand are severely affecting the quality and availability of water resources. At the global level, concerns about water are tied to the Amazon Region, which contains the greatest potential water stock in the world, and which simultaneously faces the worst troubles in access and supply. This paper is therefore aimed at pointing out the role inclusive social innovations can play in mitigating the impact of growing water shortages and securing effective water use. After a first introduction to Brazil, Amazonas and ParÃ state statistics on water-related aspects, the research focuses on results emerging from the AguaSociAL project.
Q55|Does the expansion of biofuels encroach on the forest?|In this paper, we explore the role of biofuel production on deforestation in low- and middle-income countries. Since the 2000s, biofuel production has been rapidly developing to address issues of economic development, energy poverty and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. However, the sustainability of biofuels is being challenged, particularly at the environmental level, due to their impact on deforestation and the GHG emissions they can generate as a result of land-use changes. In order to isolate the impact of bioethanol and biodiesel production among classic determinants of deforestation, we used a fixed effects panel model of 112 low- and middle-income countries between 2001 and 2012. Firstly, we found a positive relationship between bioethanol production and deforestation in these countries, among which we highlighted the specificity of Upper-Middle-Income Countries (UMICs). An acceleration of incentives for the production of biofuels from 2006 onwards enabled us to highlight higher marginal impacts for the production of bioethanol in the case of low- and middle-income countries and UMICs. Secondly, for low- and middle-income countries, these results are not significant before 2006. Thirdly, biodiesel production appears to have an impact on deforestation before 2006 on both subsamples. These last two results seem surprising and could be related to the role of biofuel production technologies and the crop yields used in their production.
Q55|Working Paper. No 309: Förutsättningar för storskaligt infångande av koldioxid|Syftet med denna översiktsrapport är att ge en nulägesbild av möjligheterna till storskalig reducering av koldioxidutsläpp och atmosfäriska koldioxidkoncentrationer genom olika former av NET (Negative Emission Technologies). Enligt 2014 års basscenario från IPCC för maximalt 2°C uppvärming måste de globala koldioxidutsläppen börja minska kraftigt i närtid samt att olika former av NET tas i bruk senast under åren 2030–2045. NETs kritiska roll för måluppfyllnad kan ses i IPCCs scenariodatabas. Utav de 113 scenarier associerade med utfall under 2°C förutsätter 107 av dessa en framgångsrik implementering och storskaligt upptagande av koldioxid både ur själva atmosfären och direkt från olika typer av utsläppskällor. Vår övergripande slutsats är att utifrån nuläget på den tekniska utvecklingen kommer 2 graders målet svårligen uppnås. För att nå måluppfyllnad behövs en kontinuerlig minskning av absoluta utsläpp, att en marknad skapas för koldioxid och en betydligt snabbare utevcklingstakt vad gäller NET, exempelvis genom ökat statligt R&D.
Q55|A review of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland|In recent years offshore wind has become one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy technology worldwide. Nevertheless, there are still several markets with large potential for deployment. In this paper we assess the offshore wind innovation system in Poland. We apply the Technological Innovation System approach. This procedure has been widely used to describe the offshore wind innovation system in Europe. However, the existing literature concerned European countries located at the technological frontier, while in this publication we examine this issue in a follower country, which is still waiting to deploy its first offshore wind installation. The upcoming transition of the Polish energy system, resulting from depletion of current coal resources and EU climate policy goals, makes Poland one of the most promising markets for renewable technologies, and the geographical location puts Poland in position of the main actor in kick-starting the offshore wind market on the Baltic Sea. However, in our study we identify a number of challenges for offshore wind technology deployment in Poland. Some of these challenges include the unpredictable public policies, limited grid infrastructure, rather poor quality of research provided by scientific organisations and weak interactions between science and business. To address these issues, we propose a set of policy instruments, which, we believe, will significantly contribute to the development of offshore wind technology in Poland.
Q55|Green Growth and Taste Heterogeneity|The recent contributions in directed technological change theory show that technological progress in clean industries (i.e. industries which do no produce CO2 emissions) lead to emission decline only if clean and dirty goods are sufficiently substitutable. The result raises a question whether a government could design a policy which increases this substitutability. In this paper I show that elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty goods increases with the number of varieties of clean good. This is shown in the theoretical model, which combines the insights from the directed technological change literature and discrete choice literature. The policy implications of the finding is that environmental policy which promotes development of clean industries should be supplemented with a policy which ensures the diversity of clean goods. For example a subsidy for R&D in clean transport should support a wide range of alternative technologies rather than selected few.
Q55|Green Innovation And Economic Growth In A North-South Model|If one region of the world switches its research effort from dirty to clean technologies, will other regions follow? To investigate this question we built a North-South model that combines insights from directed technological change and quality ladder endogenous growth models. We allow researchers in the South to create business-stealing innovations. We found that (i) after the North switches from dirty to clean technologies, the growing value of clean markets will motivate technology firms in the South to follow the switch; however this result is conditional on the North being sufficiently large. (ii) If the two regions invest research effort to different sectors and the outputs of the two sectors are gross substitutes, then the long run growth rates in both regions are smaller than if the global research effort were to be invested in one sector. (iii) If the North switches to R&D in clean technologies, the benevolent central planner in the South would ensure that all South R&D switches too, unless the planner’s discount rate is high.
Q55|New Education Models for the Workforce of the Future|This paper addresses the directions to follow when designing new educational systems and school-to-work transition regimes to adhere to the needs of Industry 4.0. Although a high level of general education will be important for its training content to develop adaptability, it is not the only component to develop. What will be more and more important are work related skills, both the general ones and the ones which are job-specific and need, therefore, on-the-job training to develop. This will require important educational reforms to favour an ever-better integration between educational institution and the world of work. Young people and their families alone will not be able to adapt on their own to the new human capital requirements of Industry 4.0 production. A new framework for an integrated action by governments, firms, educational institutions and families is needed to smooth the school-to-work transition in the future. The duality principle is the basis for a strong diversification of the supply of education.
Q55|Explaining Trade Flows in Renewable Energy Products: The Role of Technological Development|This study investigates the trade flows of renewable energy products, focusing on the role of technological development. We estimate a gravity model that explains the trade flows among 35 OECD countries from 1996 to 2010 using patent counts as a proxy for technology level. We compare the pattern of the trade flows between two representative renewable energy products: those related to wind and solar electricity generation. The results suggest that technological level is correlated with trade flows and this correlation is weaker in the model for solar products than that for wind products. When we include China in the sample in estimation, the technological level of solar energy is no longer correlated with the exports of solar power products.
Q55|Climate agreement and technology diffusion: Impact of the Kyoto Protocol on international patent applications for renewable energy technologies|This study examines the Kyoto Protocol's impact on the international diffusion of renewable energy technologies including solar and wind energy. Using patent application data of 133 countries from 1990 to 2013 and a difference-in-difference approach, we find that the Kyoto Protocol increased international patent applications from the countries with emission targets. The effect appeared over many years during the period studied, particularly for solar energy technology. When we focus on countries with more stringent targets, the effect of the Kyoto Protocol is even stronger. For these countries, the Protocol's impact on the numbers of applications for international patent persisted strongly, even for wind energy technology. Moreover, we find a similar effect for the international patent applications filed in four developing countries that are large emitters of greenhouse gases: Brazil, China, India, and Mexico. These results suggest that the Kyoto Protocol stimulated international patenting activities from countries that are committed to stringent targets for climate mitigation. Our results endorse the importance of climate change agreements for international diffusion of technology.
Q55|Mirage on the Horizon: Geoengineering and Carbon Taxation Without Commitment|We show that, in a model without commitment to future policies, geoengineering breakthroughs can have adverse environmental and welfare effects because they change the (equilibrium) carbon taxes. In our model, energy producers emit carbon, which creates a negative environmental externality, and may decide to switch to cleaner technology. A benevolent social planner sets carbon taxes without commitment. Higher future carbon taxes both reduce emissions given technology and encourage energy producers to switch to cleaner technology. Geoengineering advances, which reduce the negative environmental effects of the existing stock of carbon, decrease future carbon taxes and thus discourage private investments in conventional clean technology. We characterize the conditions under which these advances diminish - rather than improve - environmental quality and welfare.
Q55|Livestreaming Pollution: A New Form of Public Disclosure and a Catalyst for Citizen Engagement?|Most environmental policy assumes the form of standards and enforcement. Scarce public budgets motivate the use of disclosure laws. This study explores a new form of pollution disclosure: real-time visual evidence of emissions provided on a free, public website. The paper tests whether the disclosure of visual evidence of emissions affects the nature and frequency of phone calls to the local air quality regulator. First, we test whether the presence of the camera affects the frequency of calls to the local air quality regulator about the facility monitored by the camera. Second, we test the relationship between the camera being active and the number of complaints about facilities other than the plant recorded by the camera. Our empirical results suggest that the camera did not affect the frequency of calls to the regulator about the monitored facility. However, the count of complaints pertaining to another prominent industrial polluter in the area, steel manufacturing plants, is positively associated with the camera being active. We propose two behavioral reasons for this finding: the prior knowledge hypothesis and affect heuristics. This study argues that visual evidence is a feasible approach to environmental oversight even during periods with diminished regulatory capacity.
Q55|Funding Breakthrough Research: Promises and Challenges of the “ARPA Model”|From its 1958 origin in defense, the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) model for research funding has, in the last two decades, spread to other parts of the US federal government with the goal of developing radically new technologies. In this paper, we propose that the key elements of the ARPA model for research funding are: organizational flexibility on an administrative level, and significant authority given to program directors to design programs, select projects and actively manage projects. We identify the ARPA model’s domain as mission-oriented research on nascent S-curves within an inefficient innovation system. Finally, we describe some of the challenges to implementing the ARPA model, and we comment on the role of ARPA in the landscape of research funding approaches.
Q55|Green Technology Diffusion: A Post-Mortem Analysis of the Eco-Patent Commons|We revisit the effect of the “Eco-Patent Commons” (EcoPC) on the diffusion of patented environmentally friendly technologies following its discontinuation in 2016, using both participant survey and data analytic evidence. Established in January 2008 by several large multinational companies, the not-for-profit initiative provided royalty-free access to 248 patents covering 94 “green” inventions. Hall and Helmers (2013) suggested that the patents pledged to the commons had the potential to encourage the diffusion of valuable environmentally friendly technologies. Our updated results now show that the commons did not increase the diffusion of pledged inventions, and that the EcoPC suffered from several structural and organizational issues. Our findings have implications for the effectiveness of patent commons in enabling the diffusion of patented technologies more broadly.
Q55|Subsidizing Mass Adoption of Electric Vehicles: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from California|Little is known about demand for EVs in the mass market. In this paper, we exploit a natural experiment that provides variation in large EV subsidies targeted at low- and middle-income households in California. Using transaction-level data, we estimate two important policy parameters using triple differences: the subsidy elasticity of demand for EVs and the rate of subsidy pass-through. Estimates show that demand for EVs amongst low- and middle-income households is price-elastic and pass-through is complete. We use these estimates to calculate the expected subsidy bill required for California to reach its goal of 1.5 million EVs by 2025.
Q55|Technological Spillover Effects of State Renewable Energy Policy: Evidence from Patent Counts|We examine the effect of in-state and out-of-state renewable energy policies on wind energy patenting. Using a semiparametric fixed-effects Tobit model, we regress patent counts on a series of policy variables within a state and a spatially weighted average for each of these policies implemented in other states. We develop a lower bound for the marginal effects and find important differences across policy types. For renewable portfolio standards, overall demand matters. Policies in other states increase innovation, but own-state policies do not. In contrast, for financial incentives such as tax incentives and subsidy policies, own-state policies induce innovation.
Q55|Learning by Viewing? Social Learning, Regulatory Disclosure, and Firm Productivity in Shale Gas|In many industries firms can learn about new technologies from other adopters; mandatory disclosure regulations represent an understudied channel for this type of social learning. We study an environmentally-focused law in the shale gas industry to examine firms’ claims that disclosure requirements expose valuable trade secrets. Our research design takes advantage of a unique regulatory history that allows us to see complete information on chemical inputs prior to disclosure, along with the timing of information availability for thousands of wells after disclosure takes effect. We find that firms’ chemical choices following disclosure converge in a manner consistent with inter-firm imitation and that this leads to more productive wells for firms that carefully choose whom to copy — but also a decline in innovation among the most productive firms, whose innovations are those most often copied by other firms. Our results suggest there is a long-run welfare trade-off between the potential benefits of information diffusion and transparency, and the potential costs of reduced innovation.
Q55|Captured by technology? How material agency sustains interaction between regulators and industry actors|This paper examines how environmental regulation is made operational when it legislates for modifications rather than the banning of products or substances. The continued circulation of such products draws attention to the heterogeneous conditions of their use and allows industry actors to accumulate evidence of the products’ polluting effects over time. We find that this agentic quality of materials – including products and sites of application – is a vital and so far largely ignored dimension in the relationship between environmental regulation and innovation. This is captured in a process we term interactive stabilization, which describes how material agency becomes a focus for interactions between regulatory and industry actors. We develop our argument through an in-depth case study of the environmental regulation of production chemistry and identify three interactive processes: formulating regulatory principles; operationalizing these principles through technical documentation and calculation; and incremental innovation as used by chemists to address clients’ varied material problems in production. We trace stabilizing and destabilizing effects across these three processes and draw particular attention to the role of uncertainty in the operationalization of precaution as a regulatory principle. We argue that this uncertainty may lead to a form of regulatory capture that we frame as technological capture. This refers to how industry actors are able to test the limits of regulatory principles and calculations and on occasion contest these through their applied science capabilities.
Q55|Characterizing the policy mix and its impact on eco-innovation: A patent analysis of energy-efficient technologies|This paper provides an empirical investigation of the role played by selected characteristics of the policy mix in inducing innovation in energy efficiency technologies. An original dataset covering 23 OECD countries over the period 1990–2010 combines the full set of policies in the energy efficiency domain for the residential sector with data on patents applied over the same period in this specific technological sector. The econometric results suggest that when the policy mix is characterised by a more balanced use in demand-pull and technology-push instruments, its positive effects on eco-innovation tend to be greater. Moreover, a more comprehensive policy mix is shown to be able to enhance innovation activities for the generation of new energy efficient technologies. However, the simple addition of an indiscriminate number of simultaneous policy instruments may reduce policy mix effectiveness. Finally, the empirical findings confirm previous evidence on the importance of policy spillover effects, and suggest that policy similarity between countries may represent an important aspect to be accounted for in policy mix design.
Q55|Platform intermediation to sponsor alternative fuel vehicles|Many governments promote green technological innovation within the automobile sector as a means of combating climate change. Most of these innovations are driven by alternative fuels. Subsidies for buyers and governmental investment in service infrastructure are widely used. This paper investigates the question of efficient market intervention by considering the two-sided market character of the automobile market. This study shows that network effects, competitive effects triggered by an increase in automobile users, decreasing marginal utilities of additional service stations and, in the case of governmental support, environmental externalities determine the welfare-efficient extent of platform intermediation. Regarding green technologies, the results of the analysis indicate that governmental promotion of service infrastructure is reasonable, although governments should be cautious about subsidizing buyers. Intervention in favor of dirty technologies is rarely justifiable.
Q55|What Factors Affect the Competiveness of Power Generation Sector in China? An Analysis Based on Game Cross-efficiency|China’s unbundling reform in 2002 aimed to introduce competitiveness into the power industry, especially the generation sector, to improve its operational efficiency. Meanwhile, great concern about a range of environmental problems and global climate change increasingly calls for saving energy and abating emissions. Thus, the ability to balance the reduction of carbon emissions with economic benefits may to a great extent determine the competitiveness of power generation sector. This study first adopts the game cross-efficiency approach to evaluate the environmental efficiency of the generation sectors in China’s 30 provinces. It then employs a system generalized method of moments model to explore the determinants of their performance while eliminating the associated endogeneity problem. The results of this first study combining the two methods indicate that efficiency gaps do exist among the regions even though overall efficiency has been improved. Despite the negative correlation between environmental efficiency and the thermal power ratio, the power mix should be adjusted gradually. The average firm size and capacity utilization rates are positive factors boosting the environmental efficiency. The incentive policies for clean energy development should be differentiated across regions according to their power mix and self-sufficiency ratio.
Q55|How to judge whether supporting solar PV is justified|Renewable electricity, particularly solar PV, creates external benefits of learning-by-doing that drives down costs. If eventually economic, these technologies will thereafter create social value by reducing carbon emissions with value greater than the cost of abatement. This paper sets out a method for assessing whether a trajectory of investment that involves initial subsidies is justified by the subsequent learning-by-doing spillovers and whether it is worth accelerating current investment rates. Given current costs and learning rates, accelerating the current rate of investment appears globally socially beneficial, particularly if that investment is deployed in high insolation locations.
Q55|On the viability of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized production technologies, energy communities have become a topic of increased interest. While the potential benefits have been described, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to test the ability of such communities to adequately share the gains. Indeed, despite the potential value created by such coalitions, there is no guarantee that they will be viable: a subset of participants may find it profitable to exit the community and create another one of their own. We take the case of a neighborhood, having access to a limited resource e.g. a shared roof or piece of land which they can exploit if they invest in some renewable production capacity. By joining the community, participants also enjoy aggregation gains in the form of reduced network fees. We find conditions depending on the structure of renewable installation costs, on the magnitude of the aggregation effect and coordination costs and, most importantly, on the chosen sharing rule, under which the whole energy community is stable. Efficiency could require the intervention of a social planner or a change in network tariff structures.
Q55|The race to solve the sustainable transport problem via carbon-neutral synthetic fuels and battery electric vehicles|No abstract is available for this item.
Q55|The inter-temporal dimension to knowledge spillovers: any non-environmental reason to support clean innovation?|How should governments best allocate their budget to support private research activities? The consensus in the literature is that sector-specific R&D support policies should be increasing in the degree of compatibility of sectoral innovation with the practices of the wider economy. Using a multi-sector endogenous growth model with in-house R&D and knowledge spillovers, it is shown, that accounting for the time it takes for an innovation to diffuse modifies this widely-accepted result. Wide applicability of green innovations alone does not justify higher research subsidies.
Q55|Spatial analysis of emissions in Sweden|This paper contributes to the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) literature, which posits an inverted U-shaped relationship between pollution and income, but from a spatial perspective. We explore several spatial statistical and econometric analyses to account for spatial dependence in emissions from carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter (2.5 and 10) and total suspended particulates between all 290 Swedish municipalities. Our results suggest the EKC significantly holds for all but one pollutant (i.e. carbon monoxide) and that this relationship is significantly characterized by spatial dependence. Specifically, we find significant neighbourhood effects as well as significant positive economic spillovers at low income which turns negative at high income on both within and inter-municipality air emissions. Our results and hence implications suggest transboundary pollution control policies aimed at abatement would be more effective through enhanced coordination between adjacent municipalities.
Q55|What Factors Affect the Competiveness of Power Generation Sector in China? An Analysis Based on Game Cross-efficiency| China’s unbundling reform in 2002 aimed to introduce competitiveness into the power industry, especially the generation sector, to improve its operational efficiency. Meanwhile, great concern about a range of environmental problems and global climate change increasingly calls for saving energy and abating emissions. Thus, the ability to balance the reduction of carbon emissions with economic benefits may to a great extent determine the competitiveness of power generation sector. This study first adopts the game cross-efficiency approach to evaluate the environmental efficiency of the generation sectors in China’s 30 provinces. It then employs a system generalized method of moments model to explore the determinants of their performance while eliminating the associated endogeneity problem. The results of this first study combining the two methods indicate that efficiency gaps do exist among the regions even though overall efficiency has been improved. Despite the negative correlation between environmental efficiency and the thermal power ratio, the power mix should be adjusted gradually. The average firm size and capacity utilization rates are positive factors boosting the environmental efficiency. The incentive policies for clean energy development should be differentiated across regions according to their power mix and self-sufficiency ratio.
Q55|Optimal Clean Energy R&D Investments Under Uncertainty| The availability of technology plays a major role in the feasibility and costs of climate policy. Nonetheless, technological change is highly uncertain and capital intensive, requiring risky efforts in research and development of clean energy technologies. In this paper, we introduce a two-track method that makes it possible to maintain the rich set of information produced by climate-economy models while introducing the dimension of uncertainty in innovation ef- forts, without succumbing to computation complexity. In particular, we solve the problem of an optimal R&D portfolio by employing Approximate Dynamic Programming, through multiple runs of an integrated assessment model (IAM) for the purpose of computing the value function, and expert elicitation data to quantify the relevant uncertainties. We exemplify the methodology with the problem of evaluating optimal near-term innovation investment portfolios in four key clean energy technologies (solar, biofuels, bioelectricity and personal electric vehicle batteries), taking into account the uncertainty surrounding the effectiveness of innovation to improve the performance of these technologies. We employ an IAM (WITCH) which has a fairly rich description of the energy technologies and experts’ beliefs on future costs for the above-mentioned technologies. Focusing on Europe and its short-term climate policy commitments, we find that batteries in personal transportation dominate the optimal public R&D portfolio. The resulting ranking across technologies is robust to changes in risk-aversion, R&D budget limitation and assump- tions on crowding out of other investments. These results suggest an important upscaling of R&D efforts compared to the recent past.
Q55|Sensitivity of modeling results to technological and regional details: The case of Italy's carbon mitigation policy|Model differences in technological and geographical scales are common, but their contributions to uncertainties have not been systematically quantified in the climate policy literature. This paper carries out a systematic assessment on the sensitivity of Computable General Equilibrium models to technological and geographical scales in evaluating the economic impacts of carbon mitigation policies. In particular, we examine the impacts of sub-national details and technological details of power generation on the estimate of carbon price and economic cost. Taking Italy as an example, we find that the estimation for carbon price and the economic cost of a de-carbonization pathway by means of a model with technological and regional details can be lower than a model without such details by up to 40%. Additionally, the effect of representing regional details appears to be far more important than the effect of representing the details of electricity technology in both the estimated carbon prices and the estimated economic impacts. Our results for Italy highlight the importance of modeling uncertainties of these two key assumptions, which should be appropriately acknowledged when applying CGE models for policy impact assessment. Our conclusions can be generalized to different countries and policy scenarios not in terms of absolute numbers but in terms of economic explanations. In particular, intra-national trade and the sub-national sectoral/technological specialization are important variables for understanding the economic dynamics behind these outcomes.
Q55|Challenges and Opportunities for Integrated Modeling of Climate Engineering| The Paris Agreement has set stringent temperature targets to limit global warming to 2°C above preindustrial level, with efforts to stay well below 2°C. At the same time, its bottom-up approach with voluntary national contributions makes the implementation of these ambitious targets particularly challenging. Climate engineering – both through carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation management (SRM) – is currently discussed to potentially complement mitigation and adaptation. Results from integrated assessment models already suggest a significant role for some forms of climate engineering in achieving stringent climate objectives1. However, these estimates and their underlying assumptions are uncertain and currently heavily debated2–4. By reviewing the existing literature and reporting the views of experts, we identify research gaps and priorities for improving the integrated assessment of climate engineering. Results point to differentiated roles of CDR and SRM as complementary strategies to the traditional ones, as well as diverse challenges for an adequate representation in integrated assessment models. We identify potential synergies for model development which can help better represent mitigation and adaptation challenges, as well as climate engineering.
Q55|The impact of energy prices on product innovation: Evidence from the UK refrigerator market|This paper uses product-level data from the UK refrigerator market to evaluate the impact of electricity prices on product innovation. Our best estimate is that a 10% increase in the electricity price reduces the average energy consumption of commercialized refrigerator models by 2%. A large share of this reduction is explained by a reduction of freezing space. We also show that the exit of energy-inefficient products contributes more to energy reduction than the launch of new energy-efficient models. These findings suggest that innovation – the development of better technologies embodied in new products – does not respond strongly to energy price variations.
Q55|Driven up the wall? Role of environmental regulation in innovation along the automotive global value chain|Are environmental regulations imposed on downstream firms effective in spurring innovation in clean technologies by upstream firms? We use a novel firm-level dataset of global scope to study whether environmental regulations have percolated up the automotive global value chain, and led to innovation (measured by patenting in abatement technologies) by suppliers at different levels of the chain. Using a Poisson estimation methodology, we find that suppliers worldwide have responded to increasingly stringent emission standards imposed on automobile manufacturers (also known as original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs) by undertaking more innovation in clean abatement technologies; additionally, we find that the smaller the gap between the average environmental regulation suppliers face from the OEMs,and that in the country where the firm is located, the more the firm innovates. In addition, we provide evidence of a spread of these positive effects of regulation on innovation, with suppliers at different upstream levels responding positively to the downstream standards. This paper has important policy implications for the design of environmental policy instruments to induce innovation in clean technologies by firms along the value chain.
Q55|A network-based approach to technology transfers in the context of climate policy|In light of the urgency of climate change, there is a growing literature on the role of technology transfers and how policy can foster diffusion of climate-mitigation technologies. An important challenge is that the diffusion network is generally unknown. To address this key issue, we propose a systemic method building on the network inference literature. We then apply this approach using data on global diffusion patterns of wind energy technologies since the 1980s. Results show that the network's evolution has been remarkable, consistent with the colossal growth and technological progress in wind power over the past decades and the leading role of European firms and other advanced economies in its development. In the context of climate policy and given the multipolar nature and structural inefficiencies in the network, we also appraise strategies to maximize diffusion of new technologies within developing regions and the potential to build bridges through new modes of cooperation
Q55|Finance and Innovative Investment in Environmental Technology: The Case of Sweden|This report discusses how financing difficulties can affect private sector innovation investments in environmental technology applied to the Swedish setting. Innovative investments are often intangible, the outcomes are highly uncertain, and information asymmetries between entrepreneurs and outside investors are potentially severe. These factors make external finance costly and drive investment in environmental technology below its socially desirable level. Recent evidence from the literature on financing and innovation suggests that financing constraints on innovation are likely economically significant. Therefore, policies and financial developments that affect the availability of finance can have important effects on economy wide rates of environmental technology innovation.
Q55|Knowledge accumulation from public renewable energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or diverging trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional â-convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
Q55|The relevance of personal characteristics and gender diversity for (eco)-innovation activities at the firm-level : Results from a linked employer-employee database in Germany|"""Up to now, the growing literature on the determinants of eco-innovation has not considered the influence of personal characteristics of the employees of a firm. The existing econometric analyses show much 'noise' explaining the driving forces of ecoinnovation. The paper tries to open the 'black box' of unexplained heterogeneity. In fact, latent variables such as the greenness of a firm may be explained by the personal characteristics (gender, family status, geographical origin, education etc.) of the staff and the decision makers in a firm. The linked employer-employee database of the Institute for Employment Research (IAB) in Germany allows such an analysis based on data for 2010 and 2012. The results of an econometric analysis show that a high share of high qualified women and a mixed gender composition of the management board are positively correlated to eco-innovation activities. Furthermore, the results confirm that export-oriented firms are more likely to innovate, firms characterized by an over-aging of the staff innovate less and a higher competition pressure leads to more innovations."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
Q55|Structural analysis of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland|The paper is a preliminary evaluation of the offshore wind innovation system in Poland. The analysis is based on the Technology Innovation System concept. The paper includes the two first steps of the procedure: the structural analysis and the technology stage of development analysis. We found that, although there are not any offshore wind farms in Poland yet, Polish industry has broad experience in implementing offshore wind projects and can cover a large part of the offshore wind farm investment. However, knowledge area is not a strong point of the innovation system. Also the institutional (political) uncertainty, as well as inadequate public system of support for RES, may be significant barriers for the development of the technology. So far, the Baltic Sea has remained weakly explored in terms of offshore wind deployment. Poland, with its large sea space and good wind and soil conditions, may play a pivotal role in kick-starting the offshore market in this area.
Q55|Incumbents' Asymmetric Responses to Environmentally Friendly Entrants in the Automotive Industry|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
Q55|The Effect of Within-Sector, Upstream and Downstream Environmental Taxes on Innovation and Productivity|Abstract The aim of this paper is to investigate the effect of environmental regulatory stringency on innovation and productivity using a panel of 8 European countries for 13 manufacturing sectors over the years 2001–2007. This research topic falls under the heading of the Porter hypothesis (PH) of which different versions have been tested. We consider both the strong and the weak versions of the PH, while also adding some peculiar features to the analysis. Firstly, we assess the role played by environmental taxes, that is an instrument rarely tested as a factor which can support the PH. Secondly, we analyse not only the effect of environmental taxes within a given sector (within-sector), but also the role played by environmental taxes in upstream and downstream sectors in terms of input–output relationships. Thirdly, we test these relationships also ‘indirectly’ by verifying whether innovation is one of the channels through which higher sectoral productivity can be achieved by imposing tighter environmental regulations. Our main findings suggest that downstream stringency is the most relevant driver of innovation and productivity while within-sector regulations only affect productivity but not innovation. Moreover, the effect of regulations on productivity is mostly direct, while the part of the effect mediated by induced innovations, as measured by patents, is relevant only for what concerns downstream regulations.
Q55|Innovation, Diffusion, Growth and the Environment: Taking Stock and Charting New Directions|Abstract The objective of this article is to provide a succinct review of the main developments in the field of research on the economics of growth, innovation, diffusion and the environment. We focus on the last fifteen to twenty years of scientific advances in the field as this corresponds to: (i) the consensus on the theoretical side on endogenous economic growth modelling, and (ii) the growing empirical work on innovation and diffusion due to the development of patent data. As very good reviews already exist in the literature, we only provide a brief and non-exhaustive discussion aiming at taking stock of some recent developments and charting new issues for a future research agenda.
Q55|Environmental Policy and the International Diffusion of Cleaner Energy Technologies|Abstract Technology transfer is an important channel of technological change and sustainable development for countries with less innovative ability than technological leaders. This paper studies whether domestic environmental policies affect the inward technology transfer of cleaner innovation from abroad. We focus specifically on the power sector, for its important role in the decarbonization process, by looking at zero-carbon (renewable) and carbon-saving (efficient fossil) technologies for energy production. Using data on cross-country patent applications, we provide evidence that environmental policy contributes to attracting foreign cleaner technology options to OECD markets but not to non-OECD markets. We show that this is due to the nature of the implemented policy instruments. Market-based approaches positively impact technology transfer to both OECD and non-OECD economies, while non-market based approaches have at best only a weak effect in OECD countries. Domestic environmental policies may provide too weak a signal for foreign innovators in countries off the technological frontier. This calls for a strengthening of policy incentives for technology transfer in light of pressing climate change objectives.
Q55|Will Technological Change Save the World? The Rebound Effect in International Transfers of Technology|Abstract Technological change and its transfer to developing countries is often portrayed by policy-makers as a critical part of the solution to a resource problem such as climate change, based on the assumption that the transfer of resource-conserving technologies to developing countries will result in reduced use of natural capital by those countries. We demonstrate here, in a capital conversion based model of development, that the free transfer of resource-conserving technologies to developing countries will increase the options available to those countries, but that the way that they expend these options need not be in the direction of conserving resources. This is another example of the potential for a rebound effect to determine ultimate outcomes, here in the context of international technology transfer policy. The transfer of technologies is as likely to simply move developing countries more rapidly down the same development path as it is to alter the choices they make along that path. For this reason, the transfer of resource-conserving technologies, without incentives provided to alter development priorities, may not result in any resource-conservation at all.
Q55|Quelle diversité des moyens de gestion des forêts privées familiales de France ?|Ce travail s’intéresse aux propriétés forestières privées familiales de France métropolitaine dans lesquelles le propriétaire, personne physique individu ou couple autoconsommateur de bois de feu, s’investit sans que cela soit son activité principale. Nous étudions les paramètres d’accès aux divers moyens de gestion forestière à la disposition des propriétaires forestiers privés familiaux. La structure des données est pour cela précisée à partir des proximités statistiques entre caractéristiques de la propriété forestière, caractéristiques socioéconomiques des propriétaires, gestion de la forêt, vente des bois et choix gestionnaires étudiés. Deux groupes principaux de propriétaires sont soulignés selon leurs moyens de gestion. La distribution de ces deux groupes dans les régions de la métropole est également explicitée. Ces éléments permettent de préciser des pistes régionalisées pour pérenniser et développer la gestion des propriétés forestières privées familiales, accroître la récolte de bois et plus globalement une offre de services écosystémiques de façon ciblée.
Q55|A network-based approach to technology transfers in the context of climate policy|In light of the urgency of climate change, there is a growing literature on the role of technology transfers and how policy can foster diffusion of climate-mitigation technologies. An important challenge is that the diffusion network is generally unknown. To address this key issue, we propose a systemic method building on the network inference literature. We then apply this approach using data on global diffusion patterns of wind energy technologies since the 1980s. Results show that the network's evolution has been remarkable, consistent with the colossal growth and technological progress in wind power over the past decades and the leading role of European firms and other advanced economies in its development. In the context of climate policy and given the multipolar nature and structural inefficiencies in the network, we also appraise strategies to maximize diffusion of new technologies within developing regions and the potential to build bridges through new modes of cooperation.
Q55|Facilitating Carbon Offsets from Native Forests|This note aims to help firms looking to offset their Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Emissions reductions from native forestry sequestration are already recognised in the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and it is ‘shovel ready’ to generate native forest offsets. 10,000 Ha of post-1989 native forest land would sequester 65,000 tonnes of CO2-e annually on average over 50 years, and would be eligible to earn 65,000 NZUs per year under the ETS. Native forestry also has a wide range of associated environmental, cultural, social and economic co-benefits. It is certainly possible for more native afforestation to occur at present, and within the existing policy framework; however, challenges do still exist. These include: a lack of awareness; limited access to capital; the complexity of the ETS; policy uncertainty; and some specific policy settings. The New Zealand business community can play an important role in solving these problems. Businesses can help influence government policy and have the capital and capacity to play a facilitating role in the market.
Q55|Innovation-Led Transitions in Energy Supply|I generalize a benchmark model of directed technical change in order to reconcile it with the historical experience of energy transitions. I show that the economy becomes increasingly locked-in to the dominant energy source when machines and energy resources are substitutes, but a transition away from the dominant energy source is possible when machines and energy resources are complements. Consistent with history, a transition in research activity leads any transition in resource supply. A calibrated numerical implementation shows that innovation is critical to climate change policy. A policymaker uses a temporary research subsidy to permanently redirect innovation towards low-emission resources, avoiding much more warming than would a policymaker restricted to an emission tax instrument.
Q55|Retrospective Evaluation of the Costs Associated with the 2004 Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Surface Coating NESHAP|The extent to which ex-ante estimates of the costs of regulation differ from ex-post estimates is an empirical question of considerable interest to policymakers, regulated entities, and the public. This paper examines evidence on the actual costs of compliance with the 2004 Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Surface Coating NESHAP and then compares these estimates to the EPA’s ex-ante cost estimates to identify key drivers of any differences. This regulation is particularly interesting from a cost perspective because at the time of promulgation the EPA considered it to be economically significant (and it was therefore accompanied by an extensive cost analysis), under stood who was likely to be regulated under the NESHAP, and had identified several available technologies that could be used to reduce HAP emissions. Data on ex-post costs are gathered from a subset of the industry via survey and follow-up interview. We find that the EPA overestimated the cost of compliance for these plants and that overestimation was driven primarily by use of estimation methods that did not account for regulatory flexibilities such as the ability to utilize any effective HAPs control method. Thus, we find that differences between ex ante and ex post cost estimates for our sample of facilities are primarily driven by differences in the method of compliance rather than differences in the per-unit cost associated with a given compliance approach. In particular, the EPA expected facilities to install pollution abatement control technologies in their paint shops to reduce emissions of hazardous air pollutants, but instead these plants complied by reformulating their coatings.
Q55|The empirics of enabling investment and innovation in renewable energy|This working paper undertakes econometric analysis to assess the impacts of climate mitigation policies and the quality of the investment environment on investment and innovation in renewable power in OECD and G20 countries. It also assesses how countries’ investment environments interact with climate mitigation policies to influence investment and patent activity in renewable power. The paper gathered and tested data across OECD and G20 countries on more than 70 explanatory variables, which were analysed using two Poisson-family regression models: one to investigate determinants of investment flows in renewable power from 2000 until 2014; and one to investigate determinants of patent counts in renewable-power technologies from 2000 until 2012. Results of the econometric analysis are consistent with the main hypothesis in this paper that beyond setting climate mitigation policies, policy makers need to strengthen the general investment environment and align it with climate mitigation policies in order to mobilise investment and innovation in renewable power across OECD and G20 countries.
Q55|The Product-Related Environmental Regulation, Innovation, and Competitiveness: Empirical Evidence from Malaysian and Vietnamese Firms|This study examined the impact of two PRERs released by the EU—RoHS and REACH—on Malaysian and Vietnamese firms’ compliance. The analysis considers productivity as a realization of innovations and examines the R&D enhancement effect of PRERs. The effect of PRERs on productivity is also broken down into direct and indirect effects through R&D enhancement. The result shows that the response to REACH can create incentives to advance R&D, and productivity can increase through both direct and indirect channels. No relationship between the response to RoHS and R&D expenditure is found. Further analysis shows that firms comply with RoHS and REACH in different ways, but just the ability to continue exporting to the EU motivates compliance.
Q55|Economic and investment models for future grids: Final Report Project 3|This final Future Grid Cluster Project 3 report provides the deployment of key modelling results and the identification of strategic priorities for stakeholders. The purpose of the University of Queensland’s project has been to create “Economic and Investment Models for the Future Grid” and the primary objectives are as follows: Provide broad understanding of how the electricity sector will need to change in a carbon constrained world. This transition to a lower emissions intensive technology base will require significant structural and regulatory reform to the energy markets; Development of quantitative methods to analyse how price levels and volatility on the wholesale electricity market are affected by changes to the transmission network structure and technology deployment; Implement modelling platforms which can inform stakeholders in the energy market of how changing network structure and electricity generation technology effects electricity prices; Develop market simulation platforms for natural gas to gain a better understanding of how changing the fuel and technology mixes will affect the power delivery process; Develop a scenario planning tool set for future electricity market modelling. This deliverable 6 reports the final analysis and results for the Future Grid project for the University of Queensland (UQ). It is also intended to highlight the progress made on the following topics: Modelling the National Electricity Market under fuel price uncertainty and the shift from coal to gas as the primary fuel source in the generation fleet.The tools developed to model the east coast gas market are discussed in the previous deliverable report [1]. The planning and scenario development is discussed in brief below (section 2) and in [2-4]; Modelling the rise Renewable Energy with a proactive consumer base (“Prosumer”) and the effects on the electricity market. The details of proactive consumers affect electricity markets and the development of modelling techniques to accommodate this new consumer class are detailed more fully in [5, 2, 6, 4, 7]. This report summarises the work carried out by the Project 3 team and a separate report details the work of Future Grid Cluster and its interconnections and progress by other projects. The work carried out by this team is also summarized by several working papers available on the Energy Economics and Management Group website . Details of how this and other projects within the cluster have co-contributed to addressing the transition to a carbon constrained future is detailed in its final summary document.
Q55|Innovaciones sociales para territorios “inteligentes”: ¿ficción o realidad?<BR>[Social Innovation for “Smart” Territories: Fiction or Reality?]|This essay explores the theoretical arguments regarding the existence of “smart” territories, a recently-developed concept based on notions related to the knowledge society and knowledge economy, sustainable development, and social inclusion. This paper examines the preconditions necessary to make it possible for this type of territorial space to emerge in relation to the economic development underpinning it, as well as the right type of social structure, qualities required for human agency, and the social innovations demanded for such purpose. Finally, as a case study, this paper provides an empirical analysis of such conditions on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, drawing some final conclusions and recommendations from it
Q55|K-Chains: A New Class of Blockchains and Related Turing Machines Based on Quantum Mechanics|Quantum Mechanical principles have brought about a revolution in the way we perceive our world and use technology. One of the possible impacts and usage of Quantum mechanics is in the field of economics. Quantum mechanics can be applied to build a new class of Blockchain systems. This paper explores that possibility. It deals with how Quantum Mechanics can be best implemented to bring into existence a new class of Blockchain systems. These Quantum Blockchains (called K-Chains) will have several advantages like possible Faster-Than-Light (FTL) communication of Transactions, Unlimited network capacity and the revolutionary prospect of an Off-line Blockchain which will not need to be connected to the internet for transactions to occur. Extrapolation of this likelihood can lead to the designing of Quantum Turing Machines which are based on Quantum Blockchain (K-Chain) Technology. Real time information and communication systems spanning distances across light-years will most likely be probable. This can allow Mankind to instantly exchange value and information across vast distances of space almost instantly. The paper starts by briefly explaining the basics of Blockchains, cryptocurrencies and relevant Quantum mechanical concepts. Then we discuss how Quantum mechanics can be amalgamated with Blockchain Technology to achieve K-Chains. Later we will delve into the various impediments that make achieving a Quantum Blockchain (K-Chain) difficult with present day hardware technology. The paper concludes by discussing the various aspects of Quantum Technology, Blockchain Systems and the possibilities of constructing a Blockchain based Quantum Turing Machines.
Q55|The Right to Money as the Fundamental Right of Individuals in the Coming Digital Economy|Poverty has been a common feature in all human societies since the dawn of civilization. Purchasing power of an individual decides her standard of living. In many cases, it even decides whether a person can live or not (eg: in starvation or malnourishment, victims have no purchasing power to buy calories). As such, the Right to Life philosophy of many National Constitutions comes to naught if the state cannot ensure adequate purchasing power for its people. Thus, an individual should have Right to Money in order to live with respect and dignity. In this paper, we will explore the concept of the Right to Money and how it is linked to the Right to Life. We will see how the Right to Money concept can ensure a continued economic expansion even in a scenario when automation has reached a critical point (i.e Technological Singularity). Right to Money can also ensure continued human dominance over Machine Intelligence as and when they arise. Interestingly the Right to Money leads to another advanced concept – The Right to Machines which will make certain that there is continued synergy between human and artificial intelligence in future and that the Human race stays relevant. The paper concludes as to how human society can be best prepared economically (or otherwise) for a Post-Technological Singularity scenario.
Q55|Blockchain Technology - An Instrument of Economic Evolution?|Man has not only evolved biologically and culturally but also economically. Human economy has grown over many centuries through continuous addition of value. This value addition has been an evolutionary factor as it has influenced the formation of the main economic sectors-namely Primary, Secondary and Tertiary. Recently after the advent of Blockchain technology, Bitcoin achieved Gold parity. This paper analyses whether such an event will have any impact on the evolution of our economies. First, I discuss the various sectors of the economy. Then I evaluate how Bitcoin (BTC) achieving Gold Parity (GP) may influence the outcome of future economic scenarios. The paper concludes by summarizing the importance of technology in our economic systems and how technology affects its evolution.
Q55|Planning and Construction of Canop-E Networks for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth in Developing Countries (E.g.- India)|In the next few years, India will be the most populous nation on earth. This large population will need a huge increase in agricultural productivity. At the same time, agricultural activity is highly energy and resource intensive. Moreover, many places in India are facing water crisis. Therefore an integrated solution to cultivate food for the people by using water and resources in a sustainable manner is needed. A Canop-E is a large structure that has integrated harnessing of water, energy and food. I propose an idea to build a network of structures called Canop-E Network which will harness solar and wind power in an integrated manner in developing nations. Additionally it will provide water harvesting facilities also. Using the renewable energy and harvested water, we can grow food. The energy generated can also be used to desalinate water and used in arid areas. At the same time it will also protect the inhabitants of settlements in the structure from rain, sunlight and inclement weather. Thus an integrated solution to food, water and energy security can be obtained. This can be extrapolated to other developing nations to provide the people with inexpensive, inclusive and sustainable living.
Q55|The Amazon Monopoly: Is Amazon’s Private Label Business the Tipping Point?|The purpose of this paper is to consider if Amazon’s increase in private label brands is the tipping point for transforming the e-commerce giant into a monopoly. To lay the foundation, we initially explore the culture, leadership, and business practices which are unique to Amazon that enabled the company to become one of the U.S.’s largest and fastest growing e-commerce websites. Introduced in 2009, Amazon’s private label business has further propelled Amazon’s growth while creating a competitive advantage for the company by offering high quality products to their customers at low cost options. In considering whether private label brands affect Amazon’s status as a monopoly, we first examine exactly what a monopoly is and if Amazon can be classified as one in its current state. We then take a deep dive into Amazon’s private label strategy, analyzing past performance to make educated assumptions about the future. Our research provided evidence indicating that Amazon’s actions are threatening the cooperative nature of its Marketplace by creating substantial barriers to entry and increasing Amazon’s market share. With this knowledge we make predictions about Amazon’s future and whether it will ever be seen as a monopoly under the economic, legal, and/or social definitions. While Amazon’s case is unprecedented, this paper sources leading economists, journalists, and other academic research to support our theory.
Q55|Numerical Investigation of Head Frontal Velocity of nonconservative Dense Flows in Small Inclined Beds|Non-conservative dense flow frontal velocity has been simulated two dimensionally by fluent numerical code. The outcomes have been compared with experimental results. Numerical simulation was conducted as two-phase through Euler-Lagrange method. Reynolds-Stress Turbulent Model (RSM) with non-uniform grid and shredding mesh on the channel floor. The results obtained from numerical model of head frontal velocity show a good compliance with experiment results and greatly help analyzing the pattern of fluid movement in different scales.
Q55|Does institutional quality drive innovation? Evidence from system-GMM estimates|This paper investigates the influence of institutional quality on innovation performance in developing countries by employing annual data from 1997-2014. The system-generalized method of moments (GMM) is used as the empirical method. Estimation results reveal that bureaucratic quality, government stability, democratic accountability, and law and order indicators that represent institutional quality have had a positive influence on innovation performance. These results indicate that improving the institutional structure in the developing countries would have a significant contribution to the innovation process and hence economic development
Q55|Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Strategies for Offshore Wind Turbines Based on Condition Monitoring Systems|An offshore wind farm’s cost of energy is, to a large extent, driven by operation and maintenance costs. Through the optimization of the maintenance strategies for offshore wind farms, the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) will be further reduced, which will ceteris paribus lead to a higher competitiveness of offshore wind farms with other energy sources. This study pro-poses an event-based simulation of an offshore wind farm comprising 400 MW. The aim of the model is to minimize the total cost, and thus to maximize the revenues from the wind farm. Therefore, corrective, condition-based, and scheduled maintenance strategies are compared, and constraints, such as weather conditions and service team shifts, are taken into consideration. When hourly electricity spot prices are applied instead of feed-in tariffs, results show that weekly scheduled maintenance on a Saturday dayshift (starting at 8 am) is the most cost-efficient scenario. Condition monitoring systems have been found to be advantageous and are set as a standard application regarding the turbines. The impact of scheduled maintenance fre-quency, the distance between the offshore site and the coast, the interest rate, and altering reli-ability data are further analyzed.
Q55|Norwegian and Romanian green cluster experiences for a digital era|Addressing climate change through the reduction of fossil resources dependency requires the transition from fossil-based industrial production to a bio-based (green) industrial structure. The development of bio-based industry clusters might be part of the solution. This paper introduces the ‘bioeconomy’ concept and the Triple Helix model that are useful when examining the development of green industries clusters in the emerging digital era; the Smart City model might promote new ways to create profitable and sustainable businesses. Examples of good practices and clusters for green industries from Norway are provided and some success stories including Romanian firms are presented.
Q55|MSEEL Project Context: State of the Region(2001-2014)|The Marcellus Shale Energy and Environmental Laboratory, or MSEEL is the nation’s first integrated research initiative on shale gas drilling. An experimental hydraulic fracturing gas well is the centerpiece of the MSEEL project, “which West Virginia University launched in fall 2014 in partnership with Northeast Natural Energy, the National Energy Technology Laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy and Ohio State University. The five-year, $11 million project is the first-ever long-term, comprehensive field study of shale gas resources in which scientists will study the process from beginning-to-end.” Because one dimension of the MSEEL analysis is the economic impacts and implications of well-drilling activity, this report has been prepared to provide a statistical overview and description of the local and regional economies leading up to the initiation of the MSEEL project, and to set the stage generally for subsequent socioeconomic analyses. The report includes various graphs and tables that describe the local economy during the 2001 to 2014 period, providing a context within which to view the role of gas extraction activities in the economy.
Q55|Are Trends in Patenting Reflective of Innovative Activity in Canada?|This report sheds light on trends in Canadian innovation as indicated through patenting. Central to these recent trends is an apparent paradox: the number of patents granted to Canadians, an output indicator of innovative activity, has increased substantially between 2000 and 2014 despite decreased business sector expenditures on research and development, a crucial input to innovation, in the same period. This report examines this issue an provides several potential explanations as to why this is the case, the strongest being that the divergence between trends in patenting and R&D expenditures is caused by greater efficiency of research processes and an increase in strategic filings of patents. Furthermore, this report documents recent trends in patenting activity in Canada from several sources and compares trends across different technologies. Patenting trends are also used to give a regional perspective on innovation by tracking the level of innovative activity occurring in provinces and census metropolitan areas.
Q55|Some implications of environmental regulation on social welfare under learning-by-doing of eco-products|Abstract This paper examines the significance of environmental regulation in an economy where an eco-product supplied by a single producer is differentiated from a conventional product generating negative externalities. We develop two types of the model: one is a static model without learning effect of eco-product planning, and the other is a dynamic model with learning effect. We show that the regulation should be adopted when the marginal cost of the eco-product production is high enough in a static setting. In a dynamic model, however, whether the regulation improves social welfare is dependent not only on current marginal costs of the eco-product, but also on the degree of dynamic learning effect. Particularly, the regulation could improve social welfare when learning effect is either small or large enough, while it could deteriorate social welfare in an intermediate case. Although intuitions tell us that the value of the regulation appears to be monotonically increasing in learning effect, our results suggest that the value possesses a nonmonotone U-shaped feature with respect to learning effect. The optimal decision of the regulation in a dynamic setting could be converse to that of a static setting, providing important policy implications of learning potentials.
Q55|Scientific literature analysis on big data and internet of things applications on circular economy: a bibliometric study|Abstract Circular economy (CE) is a term that exists since the 1970s and has acquired greater importance in the past few years, partly due to the scarcity of natural resources available in the environment and changes in consumer behavior. Cutting-edge technologies such as big data and internet of things (IoT) have the potential to leverage the adoption of CE concepts by organizations and society, becoming more present in our daily lives. Therefore, it is fundamentally important for researchers interested in this subject to understand the status quo of studies being undertaken worldwide and to have the overall picture of it. We conducted a bibliometric literature review from the Scopus Database over the period of 2006–2015 focusing on the application of big data/IoT on the context of CE. This produced the combination of 30,557 CE documents with 32,550 unique big data/IoT studies resulting in 70 matching publications that went through content and social network analysis with the use of ‘R’ statistical tool. We then compared it to some current industry initiatives. Bibliometrics findings indicate China and USA are the most interested countries in the area and reveal a context with significant opportunities for research. In addition, large producers of greenhouse gas emissions, such as Brazil and Russia, still lack studies in the area. Also, a disconnection between important industry initiatives and scientific research seems to exist. The results can be useful for institutions and researchers worldwide to understand potential research gaps and to focus future investments/studies in the field.
Q55|Technology adoption in emission trading programs with market power|In this paper we study the relationship between market power in emission permit markets and endogenous technology adoption. The presence of market power results in a di- vergence of both abatement and technology adoption levels with respect to the benchmark scenario of perfect competition, as long as technology adoption becomes more e¤ective in reducing abatement costs. Also, the initial distribution of permits, in particular, the amount of permits initially given to the dominant rm, is crucial in determining over- or under-investment in relation to the benchmark model. Speci cally, if the dominant rm is initially endowed with more permits than the corresponding cost e¤ective allocation, this results in under- investment by the dominant rm and over- investment by the competitive fringe, regardless of the speci c amount of permits given to the latter rms. The results are reversed if the dominant rm is initially endowed with relatively few permits. Our ndings seem consistent with some empirical evidence about the performance of the power sector in the initial phases of the European Union Emission Trading System.
Q55|Eco-innovation : Spanish service and manufacturing firms| The drivers for the adoption of an eco-innovation strategy have been widely explored in the recent literature but, to date, most of these studies have been carried out on manufacturing industries. Hence, this paper investigates the similarities and differences between service and manufacturing firms, distinguishing between the high-tech and lowtech sectors. Using panel data of 4,535 Spanish firms for the period 2008â€”2014, we specify a dynamic probit model with sample selection. In line with other contributions in the literature, our results confirm the importance of regulatory stimulus to eco-innovation, mainly in form of demand-pull and, especially, in terms of demand push (subsidies) for sectors with low technology intensities. Institutional sources of information seem to be a more important driver for services firms with high technology intensity, whereas manufacturing firms rely more on internal or other sources of information. Furthermore, we find that eco-innovation is highly persistent at the firm level in both sectors and at both technology intensities. Hence, past eco-innovation behaviour is clearly more decisive in explaining the current state of eco-innovation orientation. Keywords: eco-innovation strategy, environmental innovation, service sector, manufacturing sector, green strategy, Spain. JEL Classification Numbers: O31. Q55
Q55|The Cost of Displacing Fossil Fuels: Some Evidence from Texas|Although technological progress can alter the relative costs of different energy sources, fossil fuels inevitably will be displaced as depletion raises their costs and makes them uncompetitive. They may be displaced sooner if they are taxed to internalize negative externalities. Currently, wind generation or nuclear power, supplemented by bulk electricity storage, are the most feasible alternatives to fossil fuels for electricity generation. The ERCOT ISO in Texas provides a realistic model for examining the costs of replacing fossil fuels by wind generation and storage, and for comparing wind power with generation based on nuclear and storage. ERCOT is relatively isolated from neighboring grids, and wind power was almost a quarter of its total generating capacity at the end of 2016. Using the ERCOT example, we also discuss how the long-run configuration of the electricity supply system affects evolution away from a system dominated by natural gas.
Q55|The difficult path to a sustainable economic growth|Economic growth since the industrial era has reduced poverty and increased societies’ quality of life, but it also has implied negative environmental effects. There is an urgent need to correct this structural unbalance. The open issue is whether this correction implies sacrificing the perspective of economic growth or if it can be achieved by maintaining economic growth though changing its nature in a more environment oriented direction. In the following I argue that this second strategy is preferable and also more realistic, but it requires an appropriate combination of conditions and policies to be implemented. Environmental regulation, particularly through the use of appropriate price signals correcting negative environmental externalities, is necessary, but not sufficient to promote the required radical environment oriented innovations, particularly to build a low-carbon economy less and less dependent on fossil fuels. Environment oriented innovation policies are required, supported by a system of social norms and by a polycentric system of governance.
Q55|Innovation as Adaptation to Natural Disasters|Can innovation be motivated by past natural disasters? Despite some recent research, the determinants of disaster-mitigating innovation are not well understood. Starting from a conceptual model combining perceived risk theory with the profit motive, this paper investigates the salience of innovation induced by natural disasters, using a unique dataset that includes U.S.patent data, and food, drought, and earthquake damage data for the years 1977 to 2005. To address the potential endogeneity of disaster damage, I employ the control function approach with instrumental variables constructed from disaster intensity measurements. The results show that impact-reducing innovations at the state level respond to national disaster damage in the U.S. In general, the impact of natural disasters is not localized to a state-that is, disaster damage in a state also stimulates innovations in more-distant states.The fndings in this paper highlight a policy role for the federal government in channelling and more effectively spurring impact-reducing innovations nationwide.
Q55|Social Learning about Environmental Innovations: Experimental Analysis of Adoption Timing|We conduct laboratory experiments to investigate how private and public information affect the selection of an environmental innovation and the timing of its adoption. The results reveal behavioral patterns underlying the “energyefficiency gap” in which consumers and firms delay adoption of cost-effective energy and environmental innovations. Our subjects choose between competing innovations with freedom to select the timing of their adoption, relying on private signals and possibly on observation of their peers' actions. When deciding whether to make an irreversible choice between a safe and a risky technology, roughly half of subjects delay adoption beyond the time prescribed by equilibrium behavior — pointing to a possible behavioral anomaly. When they do adopt, subjects give proportionately more weight to their private signals than to their peers' actions, implying that they do not ‘herd’ on the actions of their peers. Nevertheless, when subjects observe their peers' decisions, they accelerate the timing of their adoptions, but do not necessarily imitate their peers. This occurs even when payoffs are statistically independent as though observing prior adoptions exerts “peer pressure” on the subjects to act. The experimental results suggest that rapid dissemination of information of peer actions can speed up diffusion of innovations that save energy and protect the environment, and improve selection from among competing technologies.
Q55|The role of educational trainings in the diffusion of smart metering platforms: An agent-based modeling approach|Using an agent-based modeling approach we examine the impact of educational programs and trainings on the diffusion of smart metering platforms (SMPs). We also investigate how social responses, like conformity or independence, mass-media advertising as well as opinion stability impact the transition from predecisional and preactional behavioral stages (opinion formation) to actional and postactional stages (decision-making) of individual electricity consumers. We find that mass-media advertising (i.e., a global external field) and educational trainings (i.e., a local external field) lead to similar, though not identical adoption rates. Secondly, that spatially concentrated ‘group’ trainings are never worse than randomly scattered ones, and for a certain range of parameters are significantly better. Finally, that by manipulating the time required by an agent to make a decision, e.g., through promotions, we can speed up or slow down the diffusion of SMPs.
Q55|Digitale Strategien für mehr Materialeffizienz in der Industrie: Ergebnisse aus dem IW-Zukunftspanel|Diese Studie liefert auf Basis von Befragungsergebnissen aus dem IW-Zukunftspanel erstmalig Erkenntnisse zur Relevanz der Digitalisierung bei Maßnahmen zur Steigerung der Materialeffizienz. Bisher dominieren im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe eher klassische effizienzsteigernde Maßnahmen, die die Herstellungsprozesse optimieren, aber auch neue Techniken und Materialien kommen zum Einsatz. Grundlegende Weichenstellungen für eine moderne Kreislaufwirtschaft sind in vielen Unternehmen noch nicht vorhanden, da es noch nicht so verbreitet ist, Materialien im großen Stil bereits beim Produktdesign, über eine Kreislaufführung oder neue Geschäftsmodelle, einzusparen. Die Materialeinsparpotenziale sind in der Industrie noch nicht erschöpft und bei optimalen Einsatz der verfügbaren technischen Möglichkeiten, könnten nach Auffassung der Unternehmen noch weitere 3 bis 4 Prozent eingespart werden. Bezogen auf den Wert der in Deutschland aus dem In- und Ausland bezogenen Menge an mineralischen Rohstoffen liegt das realisierbare Einsparpotenzial somit bei knapp 2 Milliarden Euro. Maßnahmen für mehr Materialeffizienz sind bislang nur selten hochgradig digitalisiert und wenn dann - vor allem bei großen Unternehmen - am ehesten bei der Prozessoptimierung. Rund zwei Fünftel der Unternehmen sind bei den wichtigsten industriellen Effizienzmaßnahmen - Prozessoptimierung und der Verwendung neuer Techniken zumindest im mittleren Maße digitalisiert, aber mehr als ein Drittel auch noch gar nicht. Am häufigsten sind Unternehmen bei der betriebsübergreifenden Kreislaufführung überhaupt digitalisiert, eine Maßnahme, die jedoch nur von zwei Fünftel der Industrieunternehmen angewandt wird. Es besteht noch Potenzial für mehr Digitalisierung bei Produktdesign, Kreislaufführung und neuen Geschäftsmodellen. Obwohl mindestens jedes zweite verarbeitende Unternehmen über eine interne Kreislaufführung Rest- und Abfallstoffe wiederverwertet, spielen digitale Netze bei zwei Fünfteln dieser Unternehmen bisher keine und bei weiteren zwei Fünfteln nur eine kleine Rolle. Nur etwa jedes zehnte Unternehmen ist stark digital vernetzt. Mehr als jedes zweite Industrieunternehmen nutzt Maßnahmen, die beim Produktdesign ansetzen, um Ressourcen zu schonen. Bisher ist fast die Hälfte dieser Unternehmen nicht digital vernetzt - und wenn doch eher nur geringfügig. Ein Drittel der Industrieunternehmen sieht bisher in neuen Geschäftsmodellen einen effizienzsteigernden Weg. Davon sind drei von zehn dieser Unternehmen bisher nicht digitalisiert, weitere zwei Fünftel nur geringfügig. Unternehmen, die Digitalisierung bereits strategisch verankert haben, sind Vorreiter auf dem Weg zu mehr Materialeffizienz, da sie öfter materialeffizienzsteigernde Maßnahmen intensiv nutzen, eher weitere Einsparpotenziale erkennen und dann auch deutlich häufiger im hohen Maße digitalisiert sind.
Q55|Knowledge Accumulation from Public Renewable Energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or Diverging Trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional -convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
Q55|Advantageous leadership in public good provision: the case of an endogenous contribution technology|Abstract From the perspective of standard public good theory the total amount of greenhouse gas mitigation (or public good supply in general) will be lower in a leader–follower (Stackelberg) game than in a simultaneous Nash game so that strategic leadership is disadvantageous for climate policy. We show that this needs no longer be true when the leading country has the option to employ a technology by which it can reduce its abatement costs and thus improve the productivity of its contribution technology. Then both countries also are better off in the Stackelberg game than in the Nash game. Our general result is illustrated by an example with Cobb–Douglas preferences and, finally, an empirical application to global climate policy is briefly discussed.
Q55|Incumbents' responses to innovative entrants: A multi-country dynamic analysis|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
Q55|Optimal Clean Energy R&D Investments Under Uncertainty|The availability of technology plays a major role in the feasibility and costs of climate policy. Nonetheless, technological change is highly uncertain and capital intensive, requiring risky efforts in research and development of clean energy technologies. In this paper, we introduce a two-track method that makes it possible to maintain the rich set of information produced by climate-economy models while introducing the dimension of uncertainty in innovation ef- forts, without succumbing to computation complexity. In particular, we solve the problem of an optimal R&D portfolio by employing Approximate Dynamic Programming, through multiple runs of an integrated assessment model (IAM) for the purpose of computing the value function, and expert elicitation data to quantify the relevant uncertainties. We exemplify the methodology with the problem of evaluating optimal near-term innovation investment portfolios in four key clean energy technologies (solar, biofuels, bioelectricity and personal electric vehicle batteries), taking into account the uncertainty surrounding the effectiveness of innovation to improve the performance of these technologies. We employ an IAM (WITCH) which has a fairly rich description of the energy technologies and experts’ beliefs on future costs for the above-mentioned technologies. Focusing on Europe and its short-term climate policy commitments, we find that batteries in personal transportation dominate the optimal public R&D portfolio. The resulting ranking across technologies is robust to changes in risk-aversion, R&D budget limitation and assump- tions on crowding out of other investments. These results suggest an important upscaling of R&D efforts compared to the recent past.
Q55|Challenges and Opportunities for Integrated Modeling of Climate Engineering|The Paris Agreement has set stringent temperature targets to limit global warming to 2°C above preindustrial level, with efforts to stay well below 2°C. At the same time, its bottom-up approach with voluntary national contributions makes the implementation of these ambitious targets particularly challenging. Climate engineering – both through carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation management (SRM) – is currently discussed to potentially complement mitigation and adaptation. Results from integrated assessment models already suggest a significant role for some forms of climate engineering in achieving stringent climate objectives1. However, these estimates and their underlying assumptions are uncertain and currently heavily debated2–4. By reviewing the existing literature and reporting the views of experts, we identify research gaps and priorities for improving the integrated assessment of climate engineering. Results point to differentiated roles of CDR and SRM as complementary strategies to the traditional ones, as well as diverse challenges for an adequate representation in integrated assessment models. We identify potential synergies for model development which can help better represent mitigation and adaptation challenges, as well as climate engineering.
Q55|Adoption and Extent of Adoption of Georeferenced Grid Soil Sampling Technology by Cotton Producers in the Southern US| This study investigates the producer/farm characteristics that influence the adoption and extent of adoption of georeferenced grid soil sampling technology, using the two-part model, among cotton producers in the southern US. The extent of adoption is defined as the number of acres managed with the technology. Soil sampling is seen as the foundation of precision agriculture. The study uses a 2013 survey data on active cotton producers in 14 southern US states conducted by Cotton Incorporated. The study identified producers’ awareness of a cost-share reimbursement program, percentage of income from cotton production, the use of yield map, ownership of livestock, land acreage devoted to other crops, and cotton productions in Mississippi and Tennessee as important variables that influence the adoption and the extent of adoption of georeferenced soil sampling technology.
Q55|Wright meets Markowitz: How standard portfolio theory changes when assets are technologies following experience curves|We consider how to optimally allocate investments in a portfolio of competing technologies using the standard mean-variance framework of portfolio theory. We assume that technologies follow the empirically observed relationship known as Wright’s law, also called a “learning curve” or “experience curve”, which postulates that costs drop as cumulative production increases. This introduces a positive feedback between cost and investment that complicates the portfolio problem, leading to multiple local optima, and causing a trade-off between concentrating investments in one project to spur rapid progress vs. diversifying over many projects to hedge against failure. We study the two-technology case and characterize the optimal diversification in terms of progress rates, variability, initial costs, initial experience, risk aversion, discount rate and total demand. The efficient frontier framework is used to visualize technology portfolios and show how feedback results in nonlinear distortions of the feasible set. For the two-period case, in which learning and uncertainty interact with discounting, we compare different scenarios and find that the discount rate plays a critical role.
Q55|Environmental pollution in a growing economy with endogenous structural change|In this paper we study the impact of environmental pollution in an endogenous growth model that allows for structural change. The model is based on doublydifffferentiated R&D where newer, less polluting technologies gradually replace older ones. The analysis shows that the presence of environmental externalities stimulates structural change but reduces the growth rate of the economy. Further, comparing the models with and without structural change demonstrates that the latter implies stronger environmental damages and, consequently, a lower growth rate than the ffirst one. Finally, levying a tax on the polluting output speeds up structural change, thus, reducing environmental pollution and spurring economic growth. This can give new support for the double dividend hypothesis.
Q55|How to judge whether supporting solar PV is justified|Renewable electricity, particularly solar PV, creates external benefits of learning-by-doing that drives down costs. If eventually economic, these technologies will thereafter create social value by reducing carbon emissions with value greater than the cost of abatement. This paper sets out a method for assessing whether a trajectory of investment that involves initial subsidies is justified by the subsequent learning-by-doing spillovers and whether it is worth accelerating current investment rates. Given current costs and learning rates, accelerating the current rate of investment appears globally socially beneficial, particularly if that investment is deployed in high insolation locations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q55|On the viability of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized production technologies, energy communities have become a topic of increased interest. While the potential benefits have been described, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to test the ability of such communities to adequately share the gains. Indeed, despite the potential value created by such coalitions, there is no guarantee that they will be viable: a subset of participants may find it profitable to exit the community and create another one of their own. We take the case of a neighborhood, having access to a limited resource e.g. a shared roof or piece of land which they can exploit if they invest in some renewable production capacity. By joining the community, participants also enjoy aggregation gains in the form of reduced network fees. We find conditions depending on the structure of renewable installation costs, on the magnitude of the aggregation effect and coordination costs and, most importantly, on the chosen sharing rule, under which the whole energy community is stable. Efficiency could require the intervention of a social planner or a change in network tariff structures.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q55|The race to solve the sustainable transport problem via carbon-neutral synthetic fuels and battery electric vehicles|Carbon-neutral synthetic fuels (CNSFs) could offer sustainable alternatives to petroleum distillates that currently dominate the transportation sector, and address the challenge of decarbonising the fuel mix. CNSFs can be divided into synthetic biofuels and 'electrofuels' produced from CO2 and water with electricity. We provide a framework for comparing CNSFs to battery electric vehicles (BEVs) as alternatives to reduce vehicle emissions. Currently, all three options are significantly more expensive than conventional vehicles using fossil fuels, and would require carbon prices in excess of $250/tCO2 or oil prices in excess of $150/bbl to become competitive. BEVs are emerging as a competitive option for short distances, but their competitiveness quickly deteriorates at higher ranges where synthetic biofuels are a lower-cost option. For electrofuels to be viable, the challenge is not simply technological learning, but access to a low-cost ultra-low-carbon electric power system, or to low-carbon electric generators with high annual availability.
Q55|Asymmetric Innovation Agreements under Environmental Regulation|In a domestic market, a duopoly produces a homogeneous final good, pollution, pollution abatement and R&D. One of the firms (foreign) has superior technology. The government regulates the duopoly by levying a pollution tax to maximize domestic welfare. We consider the potential implementation of three innovation agreements: cooperative research joint venture (RJV), non-cooperative RJV and licensing. In the cooperative (non-cooperative) RJV, the firms (do not) internalize R&D spillovers. We show that, for the domestic firm, the cooperative RJV dominates and licensing is the least desirable alternative. Although licensing is dominant for the foreign firm, it is not implementable. Both RJVs are implementable. While the non-cooperative RJV is more likely the greater the degrees of asymmetry (in terms of efficiency and R&D spillover rates) between the firms, the cooperative RJV is more likely the lower the degrees of asymmetry. Implementation of both types of RJVs improve the competitiveness of the domestic firm and welfare. A subsidy policy that induces the foreign firm to accept a feasible cooperative RJV when it strictly prefers a feasible non-cooperative RJV is always welfare improving.
Q55|Peace is much more than doves: The economic benefits of bird-based tourism as a result of the peace treaty in Colombia|Colombia has the greatest bird diversity of any country in the world, with approximately 1900 recorded species, equivalent to 20% of all bird species worldwide. Advances made by the Colombian government to achieve greater security within the country – putting an end to the long-standing armed conflict – and to promote ecotourism can help position Colombia as one of the most important bird watching destinations worldwide. This study estimates the economic benefits from bird-based tourism in post-war Colombia. In particular, we estimate the value that members of the US-based National Audubon Society place on a birding tour that includes the participation of local communities (some of whom were victims of the armed conflict), and visits to important areas for bird watching that are increasingly accessible. The study also approximates the demand for international bird watching tourism to the country. Through the application of the contingent valuation method, we show that birding enthusiasts would be willing to pay, on average, an additional $58 per person per day for a tour in Colombia, as compared to a similar tour in terms of duration and services in Costa Rica, currently one of the main tourism destinations for birdwatchers. Our analysis indicates that a total of 278,850 North American bird watchers would be interested in visiting the country, generating an annual profit of $9 million and 7516 new jobs. In addition to confirming demand for bird-based travel, the study provides information about potential visitors’ preferences, which can help guide the development of a strategy to promote bird-based tourism to Colombia.
Q55|Financing Power: Impacts of Energy Policies in Changing Regulatory Environments|Power systems with increasing shares of wind and solar power generation have higher capital and lower operational costs than traditional technologies. This increases the importance of the cost of finance for total system cost. We quantify how renewable policy design can influence cost of finance by addressing regulatory risk and facilitating hedging. We use interview data on wind power financing costs from the EU and model how long-term contracts signed between project developers and energy suppliers impact financing costs in the context of green certificate schemes. Be- tween the policy regimes, the cost of renewable energy deployment differ by 30%.
Q55|Project-Based Carbon Contracts: A Way to Finance Innovative Low-Carbon Investments|Low and uncertain carbon prices are often stated as a major obstacle for industrial sector investments in technologies to deliver deep emissions reductions. Project-based carbon contracts underwritten by national governments could addressregulatory risk, lower financing costs and strengthen incentives for emission reductions at investment and operation stage. In this paper design options for project-based carbon contracts are assessed using an analytical model capturing risk aversion of investors with a meanvariance utility function. The model is also used to assess how a combination with grant support for innovative projects can minimize overall costs of innovation policy. Savings in financing costs are quantified using a stylized project finance cash flow analysis.
Q55|Is Environmental Kuznets Curve Still Relevant?|The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the relevancy of environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis to the environment problem of today world. According to EKC hypothesis, continuous economic growth eventually reverses the environmental degradation created at the early stage of economic development. This hypothesis emerged in the 1990s and led many serious commentators of economic development to assume that developing countries should focus on economic growth and any environmental problem would be automatically solved by the process of economic growth. The necessary message of EKC was “grow now clean later.” The empirical studies on EKC lead to the conclusion that EKC transition exists only for local pollutants. We found that EKC empirical literature is not econometrically sound and the relationship of many types of pollutants with income has not been tested yet due to the non-availability of data. We also conclude that EKC transition is not Pareto efficient and EKC growth strategy is resource intensive and has huge environmental cost that this planet may not be able to absorb in future. The key recommendations of the study are that developing world should follow different growth path than that of EKC. They should choose a growth path that is not detrimental to the environment so that stock of pollution created by advanced countries can be contained and advanced countries should make green technologies affordable to developing countries
Q55|Investigation of Various Prediction Models of Demand on the Market of Innovations|The formation of demand forecasting models is important in understanding the transition from the raw to the innovative model of the economy. The aim of the study is to analyze and evaluate the different innovation demand forecasting models and the mathematical substantiation of the directions of their development. On the basis of the Bass model, we explore forecasting the spread of innovative products with the addition of such factors as prices, advertising, and market potential for the purpose of application of applied models in assessing the demand for high-tech products at the market launch of innovative products. Mathematical justification of the problem of demand for high-tech products presented in the context of the theory of diffusion of innovation and developed technique in forecasting of high-tech products sales, which allows in calculating the number of purchases to a specific point in time. Amodel for innovation demand prediction by logistic regression, which can improve the classification of consumer preferences of high-tech products.
Q55|Forms of knowledge and eco-innovation modes: Evidence from Spanish manufacturing firms|The paper investigates the knowledge drivers of firms' eco-innovations (EI) by retaining the diverse nature of their target. Different internal and external knowledge sources are examined and the evidence of EI-modes is searched for with respect to a sample of Spanish manufacturing firms covering the 2007–2009 and 2010–2012 periods. An “attenuated” Science, Technology, EI-mode prevails internally, with R&D more pivotal than either embodied or disembodied non-R&D knowledge, depending on the EI strategy. Externally, synthetic knowledge matters more than the analytical one, suggesting instead a Doing, Using, Interacting EI-mode. Hence, a dichotomic combination of the two modes emerges across the firm's boundaries. However, remarkable differences are in place, depending on whether EIs target efficiency or non-efficiency related environmental improvements. Our evidence also shows that internal and external knowledge turn out difficult to combine, both within and across modes.
Q55|Self-protection investment exacerbates air pollution exposure inequality in urban China|Urban China's high level of ambient air pollution lowers quality of life and raises mortality risk. China's wealthy can purchase private products such as portable room air filters that offset some of their pollution exposure risk. Using a unique data set of Internet purchases, we document that households invest more in masks and air filter products when ambient pollution levels exceed key alert thresholds. Richer people are more likely to invest in air filters, which are much more expensive and more effective than masks. Our findings have implications for trends in quality of life inequality in urban China.
Q55|Green Technologies and Environmental Productivity: A Cross-sectoral Analysis of Direct and Indirect Effects in Italian Regions|This paper provides empirical investigation of the effects of environmental innovations (EIs) on environmental performances, as proxied by the environmental productivity (EP) measure. We focus on sectoral environmental productivity of Italian Regions by exploiting the Regional Accounting Matrix including Environmental Accounts (Regional NAMEA). Patent applications have been extracted by the Patstat Database and assigned to the environmental domain by adopting different international classifications of green technologies: the latest release of the OECD ENV-TECH indicators, and the union of this with the previously established WIPO Green Inventory. Econometric results outline that regions-sectors characterized by higher levels of green technologies (GTs) are those facing better environmental performance. These positive effects directly stem from the introduction of GT in the same sector, as well as from the introduction of GT in vertically related sectors.
Q55|Adapting to climate change: Is cooperation good for the environment?|We consider the formation of an international environmental agreement focusing on adaptation to climate change. Members of the agreement fully share their knowledge and determine their investments in R&D by maximizing their joint welfare, while non-members optimize their individual payoffs. Using a three-stage game formalism, we obtain that a large coalition is achievable and that total emissions increase with the size of the agreement. The welfare implications are parameter dependent.
Q55|The unilateral implementation of a sustainable growth path with directed technical change|We determine the conditions under which unilateral policies can implement global sustainable growth in a dynamic two-country directed technical change framework. Domestic climate policies alter the structure of domestic and foreign production and thereby innovation incentives across countries. Implementing sustainable growth requires redirecting global innovation to the nonpolluting sector. If most innovation takes place in the foreign country, policies must redirect foreign innovation by relocating clean production to the foreign country. A calibration exercise suggests that the US or EU alone are too small to implement sustainable growth. A coalition of Annex I countries that ratified the Kyoto protocol can implement sustainable growth, yet required tax rates are very high.
Q55|Knowledge diffusion, endogenous growth, and the costs of global climate policy|This paper examines the effects of knowledge diffusion on growth and the costs of climate policy. We develop a general equilibrium model with endogenous growth which represents knowledge diffusion between sectors and regions. Knowledge diffusion depends on accessibility and absorptive capacity which we estimate econometrically using patent and citation data. Knowledge diffusion leads to a “greening” of economies boosting productivity of “clean” carbon-extensive sectors. Knowledge diffusion lowers the costs of global climate policy by about 90% for emerging countries (China) and 20% for developed regions (Europe and USA), depending on the substitutability between different knowledge types.
Q55|Economic assessment of virtual power plants in the German energy market — A scenario-based and model-supported analysis|The energy transition (“Energiewende”) in Germany will result in a substantial transformation of the energy supply system. Virtual power plants are expected to be important components of the new intelligent energy infrastructure. They aggregate beside different types of distributed generation units also active consumers and storage technologies in order to integrate these in a profit-maximising, system-stabilising, and sustainable way. The assessment of the economic performance of virtual power plants requires a scenario-based and model-supported analysis. In this relation, future energy market conditions are simulated using the scenario methodology. Starting from the year 2015, three scenarios have been identified that illustrate alternative energy developments in Germany by 2030. Based on these scenarios, the additional revenues potential of the modeled virtual power plant is identified when compared to an independent and non-market-oriented operation mode of distributed energy resources. According to the model results, revenues of the VPP can increase by 11% up to 30% in the analyzed scenarios in 2030 due to the market-oriented operation mode. Nevertheless, the amount and composition vary depending on technology-specific subsidies, temporary nature of power demand and price structures in the energy market. Fluctuating renewable energies are expected to benefit from the market-oriented operation mode in the virtual power plant, especially through the EEG direct marketing. The selective and regulated shutdown of renewable energies in times of negative electricity prices may lead to further cost savings. The utilization of temporary price fluctuations in the spot market and the demand-oriented provision of control power offer high additional revenue potential for flexible controllable technologies such as battery storage, biomethane as well as combined heat and power units. Finally, the determination of the long-term profitability of a virtual power plant still requires a full-scale cost–benefit analysis. For this holistic approach, the model results provide a reliable scientific basis.
Q55|Energy Innovations-GHG Emissions Nexus: Fresh Empirical Evidence from OECD Countries|This study explores the impact of improvements in energy research development (ERD) on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions using environmental Kuznets curve hypothesis for 28 OECD countries over the period of 1990–2014. In doing so, we have employed a panel data where public budget in energy research development and demonstration (ERD&D) has transformed into a finite inverted V-lag distribution model developed by De Leeuw (1962). This model considers that energy innovation accumulates in time and presents empirical evidence, how energy innovation contributes in reducing energy intensity and environmental pollution as well.
Q55|Rationales for technology-specific RES support and their relevance for German policy|In order to achieve cost-effective RES-E deployment it is often argued that technology-neutral support schemes for renewables are indispensable. Against this background, RES-E support policies making widely use of technology differentiation in remuneration settings, e.g. across the EU, are frequently criticized from a theoretical point of view. However, in this paper we provide a systematic critique of the technology neutrality concept as a foundation for designing policy support schemes in the RES-E technology field. Specifically, the main objective of the paper is to scrutinize the arguments for technology-neutrality, and discuss three conceptual arguments for why technology-specific support schemes could in fact help minimize the societal costs of reaching future RES-E targets. We also briefly address different political economy concerns, which could constrain the choice of cost-effective policy support schemes, and that have to be taken into account for economic policy advice. For empirical illustration of the key arguments we refer to the case of German RES-E policy-making. The central conclusion from this paper is that technology-specific RES-E support schemes may generate significant economic benefits, particularly if technology markets work imperfectly and in second-best policy settings with additional non-internalized market failures.
Q55|Technology choice for reducing NOx emissions: An empirical study of Chinese power plants|This study investigates the choices of denitration technology in the Chinese thermal power sector. Using a multinomial logit model of the choices among 1135 boilers in thermal power plants operating in China in 2013, we analyze how the choices were influenced by government policies, the stringency of national standards, and subsidies for using specific technology. The results are as follows. First, China's 12th Five-year Plan might make it more attractive for plants to choose the cheapest denitration technology among the three options examined in this study. Second, technology choices differed significantly by region before the 12th Five-year Plan period. These differences have disappeared, perhaps due to the economic development across all regions of China. Third, electricity price subsidies offered to plants that use denitration equipment might affect their technology choice. These results suggests that plants might choose the cheapest technology available, in order to lower investment costs.
Q55|Assessing environmental performance in the European Union: Eco-innovation versus catching-up|This paper assesses environmental performance in the European Union (EU) using Luenberger productivity indicators, directional distance functions and Data Envelopment Analysis techniques. It considers four indicators of the pressures exerted by economic activity on the environment: global warming, tropospheric ozone formation, acidification and particulate formation. The change in environmental performance from the early 2000s onwards is decomposed at the levels of country and environmental pressure, and as the result of eco-innovations and catching-up with the best available environmental technologies; furthermore, we distinguish between the periods of economic growth (2001–07) and severe crisis (2007–13). Our main finding is that environmental performance improved in both periods, mainly fuelled by advances in environmental technology. Accordingly, environmental policies aimed at boosting catching-up are highly recommended, particularly in the newer member states that joined the EU from 2004 onwards, which perform further away from their respective environmental technological frontiers. In addition, re-establishing the pre-crisis eco-innovation investment levels would also be highly advisable in order to return to the rates of environmental technical progress registered in the expansion period.
Q55|Energy innovation and renewable energy consumption in the correction of air pollution levels|This study analyses the relationship between economic growth and environmental pollution. Specifically, it investigates the presence of an environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) in 17 OECD countries over the period of 1990–2012. The results confirm the existence of an N-shaped EKC relationship between income and environmental degradation. The study offers a novel methodological contribution that makes it possible to explain the environmental pollution process through the analysis of low-carbon technologies. This demonstrates how income levels affect energy consumption and how higher energy demand leads to a larger share of fossil sources in the energy mix and, thus, increased greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The effect on per capita GHG emissions is explored in a model containing a dampening variable that moderates the relationship between energy consumption and income. This empirical evidence helps to explain the interaction between energy regulation, economic growth and carbon emissions. This study also confirms the positive effect that energy innovation process exerts on environmental pollution. Finally, it is noted that renewable energy sources help to improve air quality.
Q55|Trade in fossil fuel deposits for preservation and strategic action|In the world economy with interdependent markets for fossil fuel deposits and extracted fossil fuel, some coalition of countries may fight climate change by purchasing and preserving fossil fuel deposits, which would be exploited otherwise. Assuming that deposits are traded on a market with a uniform price, we find that the outcome is efficient if the coalition is a price taker in both markets, but inefficient if it acts strategically in the deposit market but not in the fuel market, or acts strategically in both markets. The latter result demonstrates that Harstad’s (2012, Theorem 1) ‘efficiency-despite-strategic-action result’ is not robust with respect to changes in the concepts of the deposit market and market (or bargaining) power. In a simplified parametric version of the game, a strategically acting coalition buys fewer deposits, consumes more fuel, and puts up with higher climate damage than in first-best.
Q55|Green Premium, Ecolabel, and Environmental Damage|In markets where differences in environmental performance of competing firms arise due to differences in technology and other attributes that cannot be altered in the short run and firms have private information about these attributes, an ecolabel may allow firms to credibly communicate their private information to environmentally conscious uninformed consumers. This may ameliorate the distortion in pricing and consumption patterns in the market outcomes, when there is no credible direct disclosure mechanism and pricing is the only channel of signaling private information. In an incomplete information duopoly market with price competition, I show that even if a credible ecolabel is available freely, clean firms may not always find it individually advantageous to adopt the ecolabel. The adoption of the ecolabel by the clean firms removes price and welfare distortions (caused by price signaling); in this case, the availability of the ecolabel makes competition more intense, reduces market power, increases market shares of the clean firms, and lowers the expected environmental damage. The effect of the ecolabel on the incentives to invest in the development of a clean technology is more complex; the presence of an ecolabel may reduce the level of aggregate investment.
Q55|Up in Smoke: The Influence of Household Behavior on the Long-Run Impact of Improved Cooking Stoves|Laboratory studies suggest that improved cooking stoves can reduce indoor air pollution, improve health, and decrease greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. We provide evidence, from a large-scale randomized trial in India, on the benefits of a common, laboratory-validated stove with a four-year follow-up. While smoke inhalation initially falls, this effect disappears by year two. We find no changes across health outcomes or greenhouse gas emissions. Households used the stoves irregularly and inappropriately, failed to maintain them, and usage declined over time. This study underscores the need to test environmental technologies in real-world settings where behavior may undermine potential impacts. (JEL D12, O12, O13, Q53, Q54, Q55)
Q55|Innovative Food Quality Models – Developed as an Interface for Modern Consumers and Sustainable Business|The intensive development of global markets correlated with the modern consumer’s demands led to a new complex approach concerning the food sector and its’ main determinants. Old market theories that describe the food market mechanisms as a simple three point process: “to produce – to sell – to buy” are now growing into elaborated models based on more determinants that have one common challenge: quality. Thus, the present study aims to highlight the importance of producers’ accountability in ensuring the quality of food products, by implementing standardize methods of production and by informing the consumers in a correctly and completely manner. In other words, the research focuses on quality management systems as defining instruments that can assure high-quality food products are being delivered at competitive prices to domestic and international markets. In this sense, food quality management principles are analyzed from the point of view of one of the biggest actors in the food industry, Mondelez International. Having as a starting point the interview results with the Procurement Innovation Manager in Quality, this paper manages to outline a consumer preference based model in developing new food products. The present conceptual model takes into consideration both quality specialist and consumer’s demands, in order to maintain the requirements of food management and safety systems and, simultaneously, to be flexible and optimize new food products according to modern consumer’s quality requirements: design.
Q55|Pushing and Pulling Environmental Innovation: R&D Subsidies and Carbon Taxes| We use a novel modeling framework that incorporates free entry into the R&D sector and uncertainty about technological opportunity to evaluate three policy regimes (relative to laissez faire) designed to address a market with negative environmental externalities: a carbon tax, an R&D subsidy, and a mix of the two instruments. We show carbon taxes on their own are sufficient to obtain most of the welfare gains achieved by an optimal policy mix, and that the optimal carbon tax level is relatively robust to changing modeling assumptions, in contrast to optimal R&D subsidies. We also show R&D subsidies tend to produce more disperse outcomes than a carbon tax: either more R&D entrants (when technological opportunity is favorable) or none at all (when technological opportunity is unfavorable).
Q55|Intra-firm diffusion of pollution prevention technology: the role of organizational structure| This paper empirically examines the extent to which organization characteristics promote the diffusion of pollution prevention technologies within a firm (parent company). We use panel data on more than 5000 facilities reporting to the Toxics Release Inventory over the period of 1991 to 2011 to examine the number of pollution prevention technologies adopted by a facility with respect to its size, previous experience in adoption, its distances to its sibling facilities and firm’s headquarter, and regional density. We use a two-part hurdle model to estimate the likelihood of adoption and the rate of adoption, while controlling for public and regulatory pressures that may have affected the adoption of pollution prevention technologies. We find that a facility that was located in the same city with its firm’s headquarter were more likely to adopt pollution prevention technologies. Past experience in adoption of pollution prevention technology and firm’s knowledge stock on pollution prevention technology increased both the likelihood and rate of adoption.
Q55|Determining water use efficiency for wheat and cotton: A meta-regression analysis| A great challenge for agricultural production is to produce more food with less water, which can be possibly achieved by increasing crop water use efficiency (WUE). We systematically reviewed 51 cases from 48 empirical studies with field experimental results on wheat and cotton. We estimated the yield-water use relations under both furrow and micro irrigation systems, compared crop water use to achieve maximum WUE and maximum yield, and evaluated the effects of many influential factors using meta-regression analysis. Our results showed significant effects of micro irrigation adoption, farm management practices focusing on crop, soil and water, and some moderator variables related with the empirical studies on crop WUE. Assessments of the publication selection bias and genuine effects illustrated the application of weighted least squares in conducting meta-regression analysis.
Q55|China's pursuit of environmentally sustainable development: Harnessing the new engine of technological innovation|Whether China continues its business-as-usual investment-driven, environment-polluting growth pattern or adopts an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable development holds important implications for both national and global environmental governance. Building on a Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans growth model that features endogenous technological change induced by R&D and knowledge stock accumulation, this paper presents an exposition, both analytically and numerically, of the mechanism underlining China’s economic transition from an investment-driven, pollution-intensive to an investment and innovation-driven, environmentally sustainable growth path. We show that if R&D technological innovation is incorporated into China’s growth mechanism, then at some tipping point in time when marginal welfare gain of R&D for knowledge accumulation becomes equalized with that of investment for physical asset deployment, China’s economy will launch capital investment and R&D simultaneously and make a transition to a sustainable growth path along which consumption, capital investment, and R&D have a balanced share of 5: 4: 1, consumption, capital stock, and knowledge stock all grow at a rate of 4.9%, and environmental quality improves at a rate of 2.5%. In contrast, if R&D technological innovation is not harnessed as a new growth engine, then China’s economy will follow its business-as-usual investment-driven growth path along which standalone accumulation of dirty physical capital stock will lead to a more than 200-fold increase in environmental pollution.
Q55|Intermediate input linkage and carbon leakage|Climate regulations tend to target energy intensive sectors whose products are widely used in industrial production as intermediate inputs, such as electricity, and the carbon abatement may be partially offset by intermediate input-led leakage. This paper aims to examine the impact of intermediate input linkage on the carbon leakage both theoretically and empirically. We develop a Harberger-type model with an input-output linkage structure, identify four leakage effects and derive closed-form solutions for these leakage effects. For empirical simulation, we build a computable general equilibrium model of China’s economy and introduce Structural Decomposition Analysis to link both the theoretical and empirical models. When imposing a carbon price on the electricity generation sector, our results show significant carbon leakage. Our decomposition analysis further suggests that such leakage is mainly through the production substitution effect, followed by the multiplier effect. Both of the two effects are closely related to the intermediate input linkage, and thus shed some light on the importance of considering sectoral linkage when discussing the carbon leakage issue of climate policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q55|Sensitivity to energy technology costs: A multi-model comparison analysis|In the present paper we use the output of multiple expert elicitation surveys on the future cost of key low-carbon technologies and use it as input of three Integrated Assessment models, GCAM, MARKAL_US and WITCH. By means of a large set of simulations we aim to assess the implications of these subjective distributions of technological costs over key model outputs. We are able to detect what sources of technology uncertainty are more influential, how this differs across models, and whether and how results are affected by the time horizon, the metric considered or the stringency of the climate policy. In unconstrained emission scenarios, within the range of future technology performances considered in the present analysis, the cost of nuclear energy is shown to dominate all others in affecting future emissions. Climate-constrained scenarios, stress the relevance, in addition to that of nuclear energy, of biofuels, as they represent the main source of decarbonization of the transportation sector and bioenergy, since the latter can be coupled with Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) to produce negative emissions.
Q55|Second-Best Analysis of European Energy Policy: Is One Bird in the Hand Worth Two in the Bush?|This paper studies policy instruments that correct insufficient learning-by-doing (LbD) and research and development (R&D) of renewable electricity technologies and insufficient investments in energy efficiency (EE) in the presence of carbon pricing. The theoretical model analysis shows how to re-adjust the first-best in second-best situations, in which one of the policy instruments is restricted. Calibrated to the European power sector, the first-best choice of all instruments reduces the climate policy cost by one third. Feed-in tariffs turn out to be good substitutes for LbD, but not for R&D or EE subsidies.
Q55|Technology invention and diffusion in residential energy consumption. A stochastic frontier approach|Traditional large appliances absorb a large share of residential electricity consumption and represent important targets of energy policy strategies aimed at achieving energy security. Despite being characterized by rather mature technologies, this group of appliances still offers large potential in terms of efficiency gains due to their pervasive diffusion. In this paper we analyse the electricity consumption of a set of four traditional ‘white goods’ in a panel of ten EU countries observed over 21 years (1990-2010), with the aim of disentangling the amount of technical efficiency from the overall energy saving. The technical efficiency trend is modelled through a set of technology components representing both the invention and adoption process by the means of specific patents weighted by production and bilateral import flows, which allows to overcome the rigid Stochastic Frontier framework in modelling the effect of technical change. Our results show that the derived energy demand and inefficiency trends are both related to changes in the amount of available technology embodied in energy efficient appliances. The effect is significant both in its domestic and international components and suggests an active role of innovation and trade policies for achieving efficiency targets which directly impact the amount of electricity consumed by households.
Q55|The Strategic Use of Abatement by a Polluting Monopoly|This paper evaluates the effects of the lack of regulatory commitment on emission tax applied by the regulator, abatement effort made by the monopoly and social welfare comparing two alternative policy games. The first game assumes that the regulator commits to an ex-ante level of the emission tax. In the second one, in a first stage the regulator and the monopolist simultaneously choose the emission tax and abatement respectively, and in a second stage the monopolist selects the output level. We find that the lack of commitment leads to lower taxation and abatement that yield larger emissions and, consequently, a larger steady-state pollution stock. Moreover, the increase of environmental damages because of the increase in the pollution stock more than compensates the increase in consumer surplus and the decrease in abatement costs resulting in a reduction of social welfare. Thus, our analysis indicates that the lack of commitment has a negative impact of welfare although this detrimental effect decreases with abatement costs.
Q55|Sharing R&D investments in breakthrough technologies to control climate change|This paper examines international cooperation on technological development as an alternative to international cooperation on greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. In order to analyse the scope of cooperation, a three-stage technology agreement formation game is solved. First, countries decide whether or not to sign up to the agreement. In the second stage, the signatories (playing together) and the non-signatories (playing individually) select their investment in R&D. In this stage, it is assumed that the signatories not only coordinate their levels of R&D investment but also pool their R&D efforts to fully internalize the spillovers of their investment. Finally, in the third stage, each country decides non-cooperatively upon its level of energy production. For linear environmental damages and quadratic investment costs, the grand coalition is stable if marginal damages are large enough to justify the development of a breakthrough technology that eliminates emissions completely, and if technology spillovers are not very important.
Q55|Advances and Slowdowns in Carbon Capture and Storage Technology Development|" With the long term goal of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C and ""to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C"", the Paris Agreement puts renewed attention on the portfolio of technologies needed to achieve consistent emission reductions and reach ""a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks” in the second half of this century. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, after having been hailed as a promising mitigation option around a decade ago, is undergoing a gruelling path to stay on top of the expectations. The opportunities and constraints in deploying large-scale carbon capture and storage systems are of the utmost actuality, as the technology promises to get rid of up to 90% of the most common greenhouse gases produced in industrial and energy plants before they reach the atmosphere (or even to achieve “negative” emissions, if combined with biomass). Despite potential benefits, CCS development and deployment proceeded at a far slower rate than what was expected and are struggling to emerge as a sound low-carbon choice for governments and investors. Based on recent existing literature, this reflection explores the main progress and deadlocks in CCS’s difficult path."
Q55|Future Prospects for Energy Technologies: Insights from Expert Elicitations|Expert elicitation is a structured approach for obtaining judgments from experts about items of interest to decision makers. This method has been increasingly applied in the energy domain to collect information on the future cost, technical performance, and associated uncertainty of specific energy technologies. This article has two main objectives: (1) to introduce the basics of expert elicitations, including their design and implementation, highlighting their advantages and disadvantages and their potential to inform policymaking and energy system decisions; and (2) to discuss and compare the results of a subset of the most recent expert elicitations on energy technologies, with a focus on future cost trajectories and implied cost reduction rates. We argue that the data on future energy costs provided by expert elicitations allows for more transparent and robust analyses that incorporate technical uncertainty, which can then be used to support the design and assessment of energy and climate change mitigation policies.
Q55|Transition towards a green economy in Europe: Innovation and knowledge integration in the renewable energy sector|This paper investigates the fragmentation of the EU innovation system in the field of renewable energy sources (RES) by estimating the intensity and direction of knowledge spillovers over the years 1985–2010. We modify the original double exponential knowledge diffusion model proposed by Caballero and Jaffe (1993) to provide information on the degree of integration of EU countries’ RES knowledge bases and to assess how citation patterns changed over time. We show that EU RES inventors have increasingly built “on the shoulders of the other EU giants”, intensifying their citations to other member countries and decreasing those to domestic inventors. Furthermore, the EU strengthened its position as source of RES knowledge for the US. Finally, we show that this pattern is peculiar to RES, with other traditional (i.e. fossil-based) energy technologies and other radically new technologies behaving differently. Our results provide suggestive, but convincing evidence that the reduction in fragmentation emerged as a result of the EU support for RES taking mainly the form of demand-pull policies.
Q55|A Klímapolitikai Intézkedések És A Zöld Innováció Hatása Az Európai Unió Iparára – Esettanulmány Az Acéliparból| Napjaink egyik legnagyobb klímapolitikai kihívása a szén-szivárgás. A koncepció lényege, hogy a szigorú környezeti – főként klímapolitikai – szabályozás eredményeként a termelők más országokba költöznek, ahol nem kell komoly elvárásoknak megfelelniük. Ennek eredménye egy olyan aranyközépút keresése, amely tulajdonképpen azért nem működik, mert egyik véglet felé sem képes elhatárolódni. Az Európai Uniónak egyik oldalról tartania kell magát a klímaváltozás megelőzéséért kialakított politikájához. Másik oldalról viszont – felismerve az általa generált gazdasági nyomást – támogatnia kell a szén-szivárgás által veszélyeztetett iparágakat annak érdekében, hogy helyben tudja tartani a termelést. Jelen tanulmány célja az, hogy az EU klímapolitikájának általános elemzésén túl egy iparági esettanulmány segítségével betekintést nyújtson egy konkrét szektor működésébe klímapolitikai aspektusból. Tanulmányunkban bemutatásra kerülnek az Európai Unió acéliparának közelmúltbeli tendenciái, majd azon fejlesztési pontok is, amelyek mentén képes lehet klímabarát módon operálni a fennmaradása érdekében. A folyamatos piaci akadályokba ütköző környezetvédelmi koncepcióknak szüksége van arra, hogy korunk gazdasági berendezkedése mellett is értelmezhetőek legyenek. A szén-szivárgás visszaszorításához elengedhetetlen a megfelelő finanszírozási környezet megteremtése, amely csak a piaci szereplők bevonásával érhető el. ----------------------------- Carbon leakage is one of the greatest challenges the climate policy must face nowadays. It occurs whenever the environmental – mostly climate – regulation turns to be so rigorous, it forces producers to outsource their production to certain countries where the legislation framework is not that strict. Eventually, it results in seeking a middle path which cannot properly function since policy makers are not able to commit themselves to an extreme. In the first place the European Union has to cling to it’s climate change mitigation policy. On the other hand – realizing the economic pressure of it – the EU is also obligated to support the industries endangered by carbon leakage in order to keep the production within the borders. The aim of the present research is to go beyond the regular examination of the European climate policy and provide with a practical case study regarding an industrial sector. The study is going to introduce the trends of the European steel industry and highlight the possible improvement points toward a climate friendly operation. The environmental concepts of our age frequently fail to face the obstacles of the market so they need to be interpreted based on the present economic framework. The fight against the carbon leakage requires an appropriate financing environment which can only be achieved with the involvement of the operators.
Q55|How to achieve significant reduction in pesticide use? An empirical evaluation of the impacts of pesticide taxation associated to a change in cropping practice|In this paper, we use an econometric approach to investigate the impacts of potential changes in cropping practices on the reduction in pesticide use implied by a taxation policy. We combine economic data, reflecting the relatively intensive cropping practices currently used in France, and experimental agronomic data on a low-input technology to estimate micro-econometric models of farmers’ production and acreage choices. In a second step, these estimated models are used to conduct policy simulations. Our results show that a small tax on pesticide use could provide agricultural producers sufficient economic incentive to adopt low-input cropping practices and thereby lead to significant reductions in pesticide use, close to public short-term objectives. However, given the limited impacts of taxation once these practices have been adopted, other public instruments or further improvement of low-input cropping systems should be considered to achieve more ambitious longer term public objectives.
Q55|Did technical change in agricultural production decrease the emission of pollutants on the Amazon Forest during 1990-2009?| The Amazon Forest is the largest tropical forest in the world stretching over nine states in northern Brazil. Land use in the Amazon Forest has been under discussion due to its direct and indirect effects on emission and sequestration of greenhouse gases (GHGs) such as CO2, N2O and CH4. Our interest here is to investigate whether technological change in agriculture has resulted in higher or lower costs of emissions abatement. We examined a panel of nine states from this region during the period 1990-2009, a period of rapid agricultural expansion as well as a series of new environmental regulations. The rate of technical change and its biases were estimated using stochastic and non-stochastic approaches. Preliminary results indicate a technological progress for Brazilian’s Amazon Forest states, which suggests a simultaneously expansion on GDP and contracted on CO2e emissions due to technical change. This technical change has been biased toward GDP and against emissions, indicating an increase in GDP foregone to achieve a given reduction in emissions.
