Q57|Distributed Optimal Control Models in Environmental Economics: A Review|We review the most recent advances in distributed optimal control applied to environmental economics, covering in particular problems where the state dynamics are governed by partial differential equations (PDEs). This is a quite fresh application area of distributed optimal control, which has already suggested several new mathematical research lines due to the specificities of the environmental economics problems involved. We enhance the latter through a survey of the variety of themes and associated mathematical structures beared by this literature. We also provide a quick tour of the existing tools in the theory of distributed optimal control that have been applied so far in environmental economics.
Q57|Discounting in the Presence of Scarce Ecosystem Services|Discounting has to take account of ecosystem services in consumption and production. Previous literature focuses on the first aspect and shows the importance of the relative price effect, for given growth rates of consumption and ecosystem services. This paper focuses on intermediate ecosystem services in production and shows that for limited substitutability and a low growth rate of these ecosystem services, the growth rate of consumption, and thus the discount rate, declines towards a low value. Using a Ramsey optimal-growth framework, the paper distinguishes three cases. If ecosystem services can be easily substituted, then the discount rate converges to the usual value in the long term. Secondly, if ecosystem services can be easily substituted in production but not in consumption, the relative price effect is important. Finally, and most interestingly, if ecosystem services cannot be easily substituted in production, the discount rate declines towards a low value and the relative price effect is less important. Another part of the previous literature has shown that a declining discount rate is the result of introducing several forms of uncertainty, but this paper reaches that conclusion from an endogenous effect on the growth rate of the economy.
Q57|Determinants of Crop Diversification in Burkina Faso - What is the Impact of Risk Preference?|The literature considers crop diversification to be a risk management strategy at the farm level. In this article, we combine experimental data on risk aversion with survey data to identify the extent to which risk aversion affects crop diversification decisions. We conduct experiments to measure the risk aversion of smallholder farmers in Burkina Faso and a field survey to gather data on various socio-economic variables. To measure crop diversification, we use three indices of spatial diversity in crop species adapted from the ecological economics literature, i.e., the weighted count index, the weighted Herfindahl index measure of crop concentration and the weighted Shannon index of evenness. An Ordinary Least square (OLS) model is used to estimate the impact of risk aversion on crop diversification when the weighted count index and the weighted Herfindahl index are used as the dependent variable, whereas a Tobit model is used for the weighted Shannon index. Our results show that risk aversion has a negative and significant effect on crop diversification. Risk-averse producers focus more on the production of traditional, less risky and low market value crops. Other variables also affect crop diversification. In particular, education level, distance to market, farm area and land fragmentation are associated with greater crop diversification.
Q57|Economic Development and Biodiversity|There is an urgent need for studying the development of biodiversity in the (recent) past. It is one of the biggest threats to the sustainable future of mankind, and the process is largely driven by economic and demographic changes. However, it has however not received much attention by economic historians. Several (historical) socio-economic drivers of biodiversity have been recognized, however, the extent, rate and precise causes of current decline remains unknown. A historical perspective on biodiversity and the network of socio-economic factors causing it, will lead to a more inclusive understanding of the complex human-nature relations resulting in biodiversity decline. The models currently used to simulate these processes, and theoretical notions about it, have not been sufficiently tested against the historical record. To that end, it is proposed to study biodiversity on the basis of historical records and data. Moreover, a research framework is presented that may be the starting point for the new research agenda. The framework gives a schematic overview of the interconnected natural and socio-economic systems across different temporal, spatial and biological scales. This is then applied to the case of the Netherlands in the 20th century, and the causes of the decline and recent rise of biodiversity are analyzed.
Q57|The Economics of Recycling Rate: new insights from a Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment|In this paper, we address the issue relative to the determinants of metal recycling rate. The literature on recycling flows is scarce and does not directly address the issue of achieving high recycling rate. In addition, the existing literature has not quantified the recycling rate response to metal price. This is why we explore factors of the recycling rate of different metals embodied in computer. We examine the effect of metal price, metal concentration in product, and relative concentration ratio (competition between primary and secondary supply) on recycling rate. Although we find a significant effect of metal price on recycling rate, the marginal response is very low across different type of models (OLS, GLM, FRMER, left censored Tobit). This effect is not surprising and in line with the existing literature relative to recycling flows. Conversely, it seems that recycling rate is more elastic to other technical factors like the metal concentration in products or the relative concentration ratio. We discuss public policies deriving from our results. We need more data and interdisciplinary studies to support these preliminary results.
Q57|The economic value of NBS restoration measures and their benefits in a river basin context: A meta-analysis regression|The study collects original monetary estimates for Nature Based Solutions (NBS) and benefits, with restoration approach in a basin context. A database of 187 monetary estimates is constructed to perform the first meta-analysis, which will assess how individuals value the NBS restoration measures and their benefits. We find that individuals value, in particular, global climate regulation, local environmental regulation, recreational activities, and habitat and biodiversity benefits. We find also that NBS measures aimed at floodplains and river streams are more highly valued. The results of this study suggest that the Willingness-to-pay (WTP) is weakly influenced by the methodological variables. While the contingent valuation method affects the WTP compared to studies using choice experiments, the payment and econometric method means have only a marginal effect. Survey modes are never significant. Finally, studies on the US and Europe country contexts show higher WTP than those conducted in Asia.
Q57|The economic value of NBS restoration measures and their benefits in a river basin context: A meta-analysis regression|The study collects original monetary estimates for Nature Based Solutions (NBS) and benefits, with restoration approach in a basin context. A database of 187 monetary estimates is constructed to perform the first meta-analysis, which will assess how individuals value the NBS restoration measures and their benefits. We find that individuals value, in particular, global climate regulation, local environmental regulation, recreational activities, and habitat and biodiversity benefits. We find also that NBS measures aimed at floodplains and river streams are more highly valued. The results of this study suggest that the Willingness-to-pay (WTP) is weakly influenced by the methodological variables. While the contingent valuation method affects the WTP compared to studies using choice experiments, the payment and econometric method means have only a marginal effect. Survey modes are never significant. Finally, studies on the US and Europe country contexts show higher WTP than those conducted in Asia.
Q57|Information on biodiversity and environmental behaviors: a European study of individual and institutional drivers to adopt sustainable gardening practices| The identification of individual and institutional drivers regarding ecological transition of individual behaviors has been widely studied in the literature. However, few studies report the specific case of private gardening practices, even though it is particularly relevant when discussing lifestyle habits and ecological transition, due to the wide range of positive and negative environmental externalities private gardens may generate. Using a European database (Eurobarometer 83.4), we estimate individual and institutional drivers of sustainable gardening practices. Our econometric approach takes the specificities of our data into account, by using a two-step approach combining a generalized Heckman model and a meta-regression, and allows us to highlight the importance of the accessibility to biodiversity-related information in the adoption of environmentally friendly behaviors. Differentiated trends between European countries are tested using indicators on economic development, social capital and environmental performances. In conclusion, we provide some recommendations in terms of public policies.
Q57|Distributed Optimal Control Models in Environmental Economics: A Review|We review the most recent advances in distributed optimal control applied to environmental economics, covering in particular problems where the state dynamics are governed by partial differential equations (PDEs). This is a quite fresh application area of distributed optimal control, which has already suggested several new mathematical research lines due to the specificities of the environmental economics problems involved. We enhance the latter through a survey of the variety of themes and associated mathematical structures beared by this literature. We also provide a quick tour of the existing tools in the theory of distributed optimal control that have been applied so far in environmental economics
Q57|On the Formulation of the Alternative Scenario in Cost-Benefit Analysis|In this note we discuss how a cost–benefit analysis could be formulated in a second-best world where lump-sum taxation is not available. The question is how the government’s budget is balanced. Different options are available. A value added tax or an income tax or a profit tax could be adjusted so as to balance the budget. Alternatively, expenditures on public or private goods are displaced. A variation occurs if the government has a policy target. For example, a certain number of hectares of valuable forest areas should be preserved. Then, the central part of a cost–benefit analysis is to compare the costeffectiveness of different policy instruments that can be used to achieve the target. However, there are also deadweight losses provided there are distortionary taxes. Such considerations also opens up for a broader formulation of the valuation question in willingness-to-pay experiments than one based on lump-sum taxation.
Q57|An alternative probabilistic frontier analysis to the measurement of eco-efficiency|This study applies a nonparametric time dependent conditional frontier model to estimate and evaluate the convergence in eco-efficiency of a group of 51 US states over the period 1990-2017. Specifically, we utilize a mixture of global and local pollutants (carbon dioxide CO2, sulphur dioxide SO2 and nitrogen oxides NOx) to capture the environmental damage caused by the anthropogenic activities. The empirical findings indicate divergence for the whole sample, while specific groups of convergence club regions are formulated dividing the US states into worst and best performers. Moreover, Our findings reveal significant convergence patterns between the US regions over the sample period.
Q57|Evaluating policy instruments for the conservation of biodiversity in a changing climate|Climate change is a key threat for biodiversity. In order to mitigate this threat, ecologists suggest two conservation strategies: (1) enabling a species’ migration towards areas that will become suitable for the species as climatic conditions change and (2) creating climate refugia in which the species may persist even if the surrounding landscape is no longer climatically ideal. The policy instruments that could be used to implement these conservation strategies have so far not been evaluated comprehensively from an economic perspective. We develop a conceptual evaluation framework with the criteria ecological effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and dynamic incentives, which are criteria commonly applied in the economic analysis of environmental policy instruments. For each criterion, we develop of a set of specific evaluation criteria to assess policy instruments for species conservation under climate change. We apply the framework by conducting a conceptual analysis of three types of policy instruments – land purchases, offsets and conservation payments. A key finding of our analysis is that the degree to which a policy instrument is appropriate for species conservation depends strongly on the conservation strategy chosen.
Q57|Bosques en Bolivia: Una estimación espacial de los costos de la Deforestación|La deforestación en Bolivia se ha incrementado de manera considerable en los últimos años, la misma conlleva a emisiones de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad, variación del ciclo hidrológico, entre otras. El presente estudio tiene el objetivo de estimar el impacto de la deforestación y la de sus costos en términos monetarios. Debido a la complejidad de cada variable, se emplea distintas metodologías para cada una de ellas (emisión de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad y variación del ciclo hidrológico).La misma que consiste en una contabilidad de carbono y el uso del precio de carbono, además de un modelo BIOM de extrapolación de especies y el uso de elasticidad de consumo y riqueza absoluta de las especies para la cuantificación de los costos. Finalmente se hace uso de econometría espacial y el índice de escasez de agua para la variación del ciclo hidrológico. El análisis de los resultados es realizado en tres categorías: a nivel municipal, a nivel departamental y a nivel nacional para dos periodos de tiempo 1990-2000 y 2000-2010. Adicionalmente, en base a los resultados se formula conclusiones y recomendaciones sobre el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia. Los cuales determinan que el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia representa una cifra mayor al 10% del PIB de Bolivia.
Q57|Seismic shifts from regulations: Spatial trade-offs in marine mammals and the value of information from hydrocarbon seismic surveying|Seismic surveys can increase hydrocarbon deposit information, lowering subsequent expected costs of hydrocarbon exploration. Survey noise, however, can interfere with marine mammals and fishes, reducing fitness. Ice-covered Arctic waters temporally constrain both surveying and marine mammal species; damage mitigation requires temporal and spatial planning. The survey noise externality is stronger than that for drilling (Erbe, 2012); there is additional cost to marine species’ habitat versus drilling alone. We develop a spatially explicit bio-economic and Value-of-Information (VOI) model examining these tradeoffs and illustrate it for oil exploration decisions off the Western Greenlandic coast. We use cost-effectiveness to identify implicit thresholds for sound habitat quality conservation as a function of regulatory choices that have different impacts under different assumptions about the relative spatial values of marine mammal habitat maintenance.
Q57|Revisiting Allen's nitrogen hyphotesis from a climate perspective (1645-1740)|Building on Allen’s Nytrogen Hypothesis, this paper assesses the role of climate change in the English Agricultural Revolution. Our results show that, while Nitrogen-fixing plants, better cultivation and improved seeds explain half of the variation in yields, the changing climatic conditions characterizing the cooling period (1645-1715) and the subsequent warmer phase account for the remaining variation. Given that the colder and more humid climate existing during the second half of the 17th-century and early 18th-century negatively affected yields, farmers’ efforts during this period were even higher than what it is implied by the observed yields. Increasing temperatures in the next phase (starting c.1715), however, had a positive effect on agricultural productivity, so the role of the farmers in this stage has been previously over-rated.
Q57|Life cycle assessment of grain maize production in different soil tillage systems|"Crop production induces emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and other harmful substances to the environment. In view of the environmental protection, it is essential to find solutions for reducing the negative impacts of crop cultivation. Currently, no-tillage systems are becoming more and more popular in grain maize production due to their economic and environmental benefits. The aim of the study was to assess the environmental impact of grain maize production in different soil tillage systems. The study was conducted in 20 farms, located in the Wielkopolska voivodship (Poland), during the period 2015-2017. The cultivation of grain maize in three soil tillage systems: traditional tillage, reduced tillage and direct sowing was analyzed. Data included field characteristics, type and duration of technological operations and agricultural production inputs: seeds, fertilizers, plant protection products, fuel, engine fuel, lubricants, agricultural machinery. Assessment was performed according to the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. LCA was carried out from ""cradle-to farm gate"", i.e. from the manufacturing of means of production through to the process of crop cultivation and harvesting. Results analysis have been referenced to functional unit of 1 ha of grain maize cultivation. The following impact category indicators have been calculated: the global warming potential, the eutrophication potential, the acidification potential, the photochemical ozone creation potential and the abiotic resources depletion potential. The carbon sequestration potential associated with maize cultivation in each tillage system was estimated. The values of impact category indicators, especially in the case of global warming potential, acidification potential and eutrophication potential depended mainly on fertilization. GHG emissions from processes of soil cultivation and sowing of grain maize were largest in traditional tillage mainly due to larger fuel consumption and use of agricultural machinery in comparison to reduced tillage and direct sowing. In grain maize cultivation, carbon inputs to soil from the applied natural fertilizers and plant residues ploughed in lead to increased soil carbon sequestration and contribute to reductions in GHG emissions.The study was carried out in the frame of the research project funded by the National Science Centre, Poland. Project No. 2015/19/N/HS4/03031. Project tittle: Environmental life cycle assessment and life cycle costing of grain crop production in different soil tillage systems."
Q57|Life cycle assessment and life cycle costing in measuring the eco-efficiency performance of winter rape production|In the mitigation policy, agricultural activities are gaining growing importance. International and national regulations require the use of sustainable production methods. This means that the attention focused on the current recommendations shifts from a set of minimum requirements to recognize environmental effects throughout the life cycle of products. Farming and food production are also expected to comply with the second pillar of sustainability which is related to the economic aspects of production. Important operational dimension of sustainability assessment is a concept of eco-efficiency, which is defined as creating more value or generating less cost with less environmental impact. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Life Cycle Costing (LCC) are appropriate methodologies to investigate the eco-efficiency of production systems within the life cycle. The aim of the study was to perform the comparative analysis of cash crop production in different farming types by applying the LCA and LCC methods. Carbon Footprint (CF) was applied as a single most important measure of environmental impact of production. The study was conducted in 69 farms, located in the Wielkopolska and Lubelskie regions (Poland) during the period 2017-2018. The analysed farms represented key agricultural activities, according to the classification of the EU: a) milk production, b) pig production, c) field crops, d) mixed livestock production (pig and milk). The chosen types of production are represented by the largest number of farms in Poland. The selection of the study group, according to the set criteria, were based on the information of Wielkopolski and Lubelski Agricultural Advisory Centres. The LCA and LCC analysis were carried out in similar phases corresponding to LCA standard: goal and scope definition, environmental life cycle inventory, life cycle impact assessment and interpretation. In winter rape production average value of CF was equal to 1003 kg CO2 eq per 1 tonne of grain (functional unit). The highest value of CF was observed in milk farming in Wielkopolska region of 1254 kg CO2 eq. Average aggregated cost of production related to the functional unit was 1084 PLN, with the highest value of 1222 PLN found in the pig farming in Lubelski region. Preproduction phases linked with the direct inputs levels contributed mostly to a high overall cost of rape production in pig farming and to the CF value of winter rape in farms specialised in milk production. *This work is a part of a research project No. 2016/21/B/HS4/01963 financed by the National Science Centre, Poland.
Q57|Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Achziv marine reserve expansion considering the Barcelona Convention and the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive|In this paper we present a Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) of the Achziv Rocky reefs marine protected area (MPA) in Israel as a case study following the implementation of the international Barcelona Convention.The Marine Strategy Framework Directive requires that Member States and affiliates members achieve “Good Environmental Status” (GES) of marine ecosystems by 2020 including improvement of Marine Protected Area (MPA) networks in EU marine waters.EU guidance documents recommend using economic valuation and CBA to support environmental decision-making. We therefore propose the application of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) requirements in Israel, and its methodology as marine conservation guidelines by the year 2020.We reveal constraints of the Cost-Benefit-Analysis (CBA), appraising the Ecosystem Services Approach (ESA) and we show the relevance of MPA's economic analysis.We analyze these challenges with respect to Israel, an affiliate MSFD country that has not yet carried such CBA on MPAs. In this case study, we compare the current MPA situation with the expected positive outcome of MPA expansion.Our analysis shows that benefits from a marine reserve and its associated ecosystem services can largely exceed their protection costs, which should entice other organizations, from regional to governments, to follow MPA protection recommendations.
Q57|Trade-offs between carbon sequestration, landscape aesthetics and biodiversity in a cost-benefit analysis of land use options in Norway|Norway is considering a national afforestation program for greenhouse gas (GHG) sequestration on recently abandoned semi-natural pastureland. However, the program may have negative impacts on landscape aesthetics and biodiversity. We conducted a national choice experiment survey to estimate non-market benefits of the afforestation program, compared to an alternative program of recovering pastures and the status quo of natural reforestation. Combining the preference data with secondary data on costs, we derive the social net return on land use alternatives. We find that restoring half of the abandoned pastures for grazing yields the highest net present value. Rural households closer to abandoned pastures are the largest beneficiaries of this policy due to the value they place on pastures and their disutility of natural reforestation. Their willingness to pay (WTP) for recovering pastures is more than three times that of urban households, while non-use values derived from carbon sequestration and biodiversity seem more constant across space. The net present value of all land use alternatives are still positive when limiting the aggregation of WTP to rural households, and when allowing for the presence of substantial hypothetical bias in benefit estimates and for cost increases. Results indicate that landscape and biodiversity values are substantial and should be considered when designing agricultural and climate policies.
Q57|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the worldâ€™s most extensive rainforest, where Brazilâ€™s federal government issued a â€˜Priority Listâ€™ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using â€˜changes-in-changesâ€™ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
Q57|What Drives Size Reductions for Protected Areas? Evidence about PADDD from across the Brazilian Amazon|Protected areas (PAs) have been the most widely used tool to conserve ecosystem services. New PAs are created every year and the effective PAs block some economic development. Yet that opportunity cost of conservation leads PAs to have isolated locations and even to suffer considerable PA degazettements, downsizings and degradation (jointly ‘PADDD’). Adding to a sparse literature on PADDD, we assess some drivers of PAs’ size reductions, i.e., degazettements and downsizings. We base our empirical efforts upon a simple model of size reductions that result from interactions between agencies with differing objectives, conservation versus development. Gradients across space for the agency benefits and costs yield predictions about where each agency is most against, or for, size reductions for PAs. Analyzing Brazilian Amazon data from a relatively new and growing global data set from PADDDtracker, we find size reductions are influenced by: distance to cities and roads, i.e., transport that affects private profits and public enforcement costs; PA size, which affects enforcement costs; and previous deforestation in a PA, which lowers impacts of PADDD.
Q57|Attitude of European and Chinese consumers toward food products from IPM: results from a survey|The paper aims to illustrate the factors that can influence the choices of European and Chinese consumers of products obtained with a lower use of pesticides (IPM methods). The results, obtained from a survey, allow identifying the most aware categories, those still far from a complete knowledge of IPM methods and their potential. They can also suggest useful policies to achieve a more sustainable consumption behavior.
Q57|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q57|Role of information in the valuation of unfamiliar goods – the case of genetic resources in agriculture| We analyse information effects in the valuation of agricultural genetic resources using choice experiments. We define two respondent groups based on their information use. Our findings indicate that socio-demographic and attitudinal variables affect information use. There is significant individual preference heterogeneity, but there are no significant differences in scale between the information groups after allowing the mean coefficients for the attributes differ. Those having read the additional information derive higher utility from the protection of agricultural genetic resources. Our results highlight the importance of genetic resource conservation and controlling for the effects of information use in choice experiment models for unfamiliar goods.
Q57|Money Growing on Trees: A Classroom Game about Payments for Ecosystem Services and Tropical Deforestation|Payments for ecosystem service programs use a market-based approach to pursue environmental goals. While they are common policy tools, key concepts that can determine their efficacy are nuanced and hard to grasp. We present a new interactive game that explores the functioning and implications of payments for ecosystem service programs. Participants play the role of rural households in a developing country. They decide individually or as groups whether to enter into contracts to receive payment from the United Nations REDD+ program to refrain from harvesting from a local forest. The game explores topics including: payments for ecosystem services programs; climate change; tropical deforestation; cost-effectiveness; additionality; contract fraud and enforcement; and community resource management. We provide customizable materials, a detailed reading list, and prompts for discussion.
Q57|Effects of information and seedling provision on tree planting and survival in smallholder oil palm plantations|Oil palm expansion in Indonesia is associated with a reduction in biodiversity and ecosystem services, as well as livelihood improvements for smallholder farmers. While this dichotomy highlights the importance of sustainable management options, empirical evidence on which policies are effective in stimulating biodiversity-friendly plantation management is relatively scarce. This paper addresses this gap by presenting results from a randomized controlled trial implemented in Jambi province, Sumatra, in 2016. We focus on native tree planting in oil palm plantations as one sustainable management option. To test whether information and input provision affect the number of trees planted by smallholders two treatments were designed: the first provided information about tree planting in oil palm, while the second combined information and seedling delivery. We model adoption in a double-hurdle framework where farmers first decide whether to adopt or not and then how many trees they plant per hectare. Our results suggest that both interventions are effective in stimulating tree planting in oil palm. Seedling provision in combination with information leads to a higher probability of adoption, but farmers plant on average relatively few trees per hectare. In contrast, in the informational treatment, few farmers adopt, but they plant more trees per hectare than farmers who received seedlings. Furthermore, we observe that the survival rate of trees planted is lower for farmers who received seedlings in comparison to farmers who only received information. Since we cannot find evidence for farmer and plot selection effects, it is likely that species choice and seedling quality are the underlying drivers of this difference.
Q57|Samuelson's Contributions to Population Theory and Overlapping Generations in Economics|Paul Samuelson made a series of important contributions to population theory for humans and other species, evolutionary theory, and the theory of age structured life cycles in economic equilibrium and growth. The work is highly abstract but much of it was intended to illuminate issues of compelling policy importance, such as declining fertility and population aging. While his work in population economics has been very influential, his work in population and evolution appears to have been largely overlooked, perhaps because he seldom published in demographic journals or went to population meetings. Here I discuss his many contributions in all these areas, but give particular attention to demographic aspects of his famous work on overlapping generation models, social security systems, and population growth.
Q57|In and beyond the locality : policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China|This article investigates the interaction process between policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China, focusing on the case of the Huai River Basin. Since the 1970s, rural communities in the basin have suffered from persistent water pollution health hazards. Through a critical review of the interactions between policy and practices, this article reveals how these two approaches coevolved in the cooperative sphere, that is, a quasi-public sphere under fragmented authoritarianism in China supported by the state, media and environmental non-governmental organizations to address the ecological disaster in and beyond the basin. Additionally, a disconnect between practices in the locality and the policy beyond it can be observed as another side of fragmentation in the field of environment and health issues. Grassroots “micropolitics” such as dialogue, negotiation, cooperation with polluters and local authorities, and innovation as an alternative to the official public work based on social and ecological knowledge are examined to overcome this fragmentation.
Q57|Bio-economy and the sustainability of the agriculture and food system: Opportunities and policy challenges|The bio-economy is gaining increasing prominence in the policy debate, with several countries developing bio-economy strategies to decouple economic growth from dependence on fossil fuel, as well a pathway to supporting some of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement. This report analyses the opportunities and policy challenges facing the bio-economy in transitioning to a more sustainable agro-food system. It provides an overview of national bio-economy- strategies based on a literature review and information provided by governments in response to a questionnaire.
Q57|Fiscal policy and ecological sustainability: A post-Keynesian perspective|Fiscal policy has a strong role to play in the transition to an ecologically sustainable economy. This paper critically discusses the way that green fiscal policy has been analysed in both conventional and post-Keynesian approaches. It then uses a recently developed post-Keynesian ecological macroeconomic model in order to provide a comparative evaluation of three different types of green fiscal policy: carbon taxes, green subsidies and green public investment. We show that (i) carbon taxes reduce global warming but increase financial risks due to their adverse effects on the profitability of firms and credit availability; (ii) green subsidies and green public investment improve ecological efficiency, but their positive environmental impact is partially offset by their macroeconomic rebound effects; and (iii) a green fiscal policy mix derives better outcomes than isolated policies. Directions for future heterodox macroeconomic research on the links between fiscal policy and ecological sustainability are suggested.
Q57|Information sharing is not always the right option when it comes to CPR extraction management: experimental findings|"We experimentally investigate the impact of information sharing in a common pool resource game. More precisely, we test whether the voluntary disclosure of the decision by a player has a positive impact on the extraction level exhibited by the group compared to the level observed when decisions are compulsory disclosed. We design an experiment composed by three treatments: a mandatory disclosure treatment and two treatments where players are free to choose whether or not to disclose their decisions. The latter differ by the degree of freedom given to players. In the treatment ""Voluntary Free Disclosure"" players are also free to choose the extraction level that is displayed, while in the treatment ""Voluntary Binary Disclosure"" if the player discloses h(is)er decision the value displayed is the effective extraction level. We observe that the voluntary disclosure has a positive effect in the social dilemma, measured by lower average extraction levels. However the disclosure mechanism should not allow to self-declare extraction: here it reveals a large tendency to lie leading to an increase in extraction."
Q57|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/ Daly versus Solow/ Stiglitz|"This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a ""model-based methodology"", where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of ""unbounded resources productivity"". On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of ""thermodynamic limits to production"", later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of ""interdisciplinary consistency"" which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms."
Q57|Land use and ecosystem services|This report assesses the crucial drivers of ecosystem services and proposes actions to develop a more effective policy mix. Several elements form the basis of this report. First, a literature review provides an overview of the state and trends of ecosystem services linked to agriculture, including issues related to land use. Secondly, results are presented from a quantitative model developed to illustrate the potential benefits of improving policy design as well as to investigate synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services. This report also includes a review of experiences in an inventory of ecosystems in selected countries and policy initiatives that address ecosystem services linked to agriculture.
Q57|Relative Effects of Fisheries Support Policies|The effects of six common forms of fisheries support are estimated using a bioeconomic model of the global fishery. The results show that all have the potential to provoke overfishing, to lead to fish stocks being overfished, to encourage illegal, unreported or unregulated (IUU) fishing and to increase fleet capacity, but that their effects can vary significantly both in scale and how they are distributed at the fleet level. The fisheries management system can mitigate, though not entirely eliminate, these impacts. Supports based on reducing the cost of inputs purchased by fishers provoke the greatest increase in fishing effort, with associated risks of overfishing. This includes fuel subsidies, which are also shown to deliver less than 10% of their value in actual benefits to fishers in some cases, making them the least effective means of transferring income to fishers of those evaluated. Payments based on improving fishers’ business operations provided the greatest benefit to fishers and had relatively less tendency to increase fishing effort. If only USD 5 billion in fuel support was converted into support of this type, fishers would see increased income of more than USD 2 billion, while at the same time reducing effort and improving fish stocks. Such a change would also provide relatively more benefit to smaller fishers.
Q57|Mainstreaming biodiversity and development in Peru: Insights and lessons learned|Peru relies significantly on its abundant natural capital for economic growth, development and human well-being. At the same time, the country’s rich terrestrial and marine biodiversity is subject to high pressure as a result of land-use change, overexploitation, industrial development and illegal mining and logging activities. This paper examines Peru’s efforts to integrate biodiversity into decision-making at different levels of the government and in various sectors of the economy. The analysis finds that the Peruvian government recognises the risk that depletion of the country’s natural capital may substantially undermine the long-term sustainability of the economy. Significant progress has been made to mainstream biodiversity, for example, through the creation of an enabling institutional and legal framework. However, a number of challenges remain, requiring targeted effective solutions, such as strengthening capacity of the public sector with a focus on the sub-national level, improving the quality and coverage of data to inform biodiversity mainstreaming, and scaling up biodiversity finance including through the use of economic instruments.
Q57|Assessing the economic valuation of the benefits of regulating chemicals: Lessons learned from five case studies|This paper reviews and compares five case studies on quantification and economic valuation of benefits in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of regulating phthalates, mercury, PFOA (perfluoro-octanic acid) and its salts, NMP (1 methyl-2-pyrroloidine) and formaldehyde. The case studies had all been carried out as part of the SACAME project, and the purpose of the present paper is to draw out cross-cutting findings from these studies.
Q57|Evaluating the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity: Impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other approaches|This report provides an overview of methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity, covering impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other more commonly used approaches. It then provides an inventory of biodiversity-relevant impact evaluation studies, across both terrestrial and marine ecosystems. The report concludes with lessons learned, policy insights and suggestions for further work.
Q57|Land Cover Change and Conversions: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 Countries|Changes in the biophysical characteristics of natural habitats – that can be measured with data on land cover – are the best proxy to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity. This paper presents a suite of indicators that track land cover change over time in a globally consistent manner. The indicators, including an OECD Green Growth headline indicator, represent the Organisation's most recent effort to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity, using state-of-the-art data and techniques. Results are presented for OECD and G20 countries over 1992-2015 using global multi-period datasets.
Q57|Mise en place d’un Dispositif de connaissance, suivi et évaluation socio-économique et environnemental de la Nouvelle Aire Protégée (NAP) du Makay, Madagascar|D’une superficie d’environ 4 000 km2, la Nouvelle Aire Protégée du Makay, Madagascar, officialisée en 2017, est emblématique de la richesse de la biodiversité, avec un taux d’endémisme exceptionnel, et du patrimoine naturel et culturel malgache. Le présent document expose les enjeux et les options méthodologiques pour la mise en place d’un dispositif de connaissance, suivi et évaluation socio-économique et environnemental. Le dispositif se compose de trois bras articulés, combinant sciences sociales et sciences de la nature et de la terre, aussi bien quantitatifs que qualitatifs : un dispositif quantitatif d’enquêtes socio-économiques et environnementales auprès des populations du Makay ; un dispositif de suivi écologique ; un dispositif qualitatif de type socio-anthropologique. En mettant les populations qui vivent aux pourtours du Makay au coeur du dispositif, il se propose de repousser la frontière des systèmes d’informations existants, à ce jour balbutiants dans ce domaine, malgré leur importance décisive à l’échelle mondiale, afin de mieux comprendre les liens entre conservation et développement._____________________________________________________________________ Covering an area of approximately 4,000 km2, the New Protected Area of Makay, Madagascar, formalized in 2017, is emblematic of the richness of biodiversity, with an exceptional rate of endemism, and the natural and cultural heritage of Madagascar. This document presents the challenges and the methodological options for setting up a socio-economic and environmental knowledge, monitoring and evaluation system. The device consists of three articulated arms, combining social sciences and natural and earth sciences, both quantitative and qualitative: a quantitative arm of socio-economic and environmental surveys among the populations of Makay; an ecological monitoring arm; and a qualitative socio-anthropological arm. By putting the people who live on the edge of the Makay at the heart of the device, it proposes to push the frontier of existing information systems, still underdeveloped in this field, despite their decisive importance on a global scale, in order to better understand the links between conservation and development.
Q57|Synthesis and the organism: biology, chemistry, and engineering|This workshop attended to the ways in which methods for the chemical synthesis of organic materials has mattered, and continues to matter, for biological science and technology. It adopted a fundamentally historical approach with a focus on the synthesis of DNA, and was informed by accounts from scientific practitioners, social scientists, museologists, philosophers, and historians. The workshop’s investigation was inspired by a focal point: the efforts of a small international community of scientists and engineers who from around the 1960s picked up the challenge of synthesizing nucleotide sequences without having to rely on finding desired sequences in existing organisms. This was the making of sequences through chemistry, technology and engineering. While the historiography of biotechnology is vast, the capacity for DNA synthesis itself has largely gone unnoticed, the vast majority of work focusing on techniques for recombination, its meanings, broader social significance, and reception amongst diverse publics. By staying focussed on the particularities of biological molecules as synthesised the workshop aimed to break new ground, drawing in material culture, engineering studies, and their historical, philosophical and sociological intersections. While DNA synthesis was the focal point, these activities needed to be understood in a longer and broader context, right up to the present. Speakers accordingly focussed on a range of periods, and highlighted different features when it came to synthesis and the organism, each with an emphasis on different kinds of scientific, commercial, or organic actor. Indeed it is no doubt thanks to the diversity of the kinds of actor involved that scholars in the history of science have yet to grapple with the cases addressed here, the majority staying within either chemistry, biology, or engineering. This workshop recognises that synthesis sits in an uncomfortable research space for historians and philosophers of science. It was dedicated to addressing this discomfort and producing materials for the systematic international investigation of nonbiological, or perhaps ‘mechano-chemical’ DNA synthesis, the philosophical questions it provokes, the historiographical revisionism it invites, and the social relations it changes. Part 1 of the report incorporates short summaries of the papers given (each of which was 20 minutes in length) and reports of the question period. Part 2 includes the biographies of our participants. In an annex we include copies of the workshop documentation.
Q57|Social rewards and the design of voluntary incentive mechanism for biodiversity protection on farmland|We examine how endogenous social preferences could affect economic incentive design to encourage biodiversity protection on private land. A 'green' farmer may enjoy esteem from leading by example if there are few farmers who do the right thing. In contrast a farmer without social preferences ('brown' farmer) might merely tick the boxes and is expected to shirk from the desired environmental actions whenever possible unless this affects their reputation. We analyze the design of an incentive scheme that takes into account both types of farmers ('green' or 'brown') under asymmetric information about their true motivation. It follows that under perfect Bayesian equilibrium, the regulator can separate out the farmer types in a two-period setting by monitoring their voluntary conservation actions in response to payment in the first period. The optimal mechanism would be a mixture of a facilitation contract with small monetary incentive but high visibility to keep 'green' farmers interested and a higher monetary-incentive contract to attract the brown farmers.
Q57|Estimating the Value of Crop Diversity Conservation Services Provided by the Czech National Programme for Agrobiodiversity|We estimate the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for conserving crop varieties for ten years in the Czech Republic using a double-bounded dichotomous choice model to analyze data collected with an online contingent valuation survey administered to a main country-wide sample of 1037 respondents and a smaller sub-sample of 500 representative of the agricultural region of South Moravia. Mean WTP was found to be about $9 for both the Czech and S. Moravian sub-samples, corresponding to country-wide benefits of $68 million. These benefits increase by 5% for every ten varieties conserved, implying total welfare benefits of $80 million for a program conserving the maximum number of 35 additional crop varieties. The study reveals the previously unmeasured social benefits of crop conservation activities in the Czech Republic, and illustrates an empirical approach of potential value for policymakers responsible for determining funding levels for genetic resource conservation.
Q57|Periurban Agriculture: do the Current EU Agri-environmental Policy Programmes Fit with it?| In the European Union (EU) periurban agriculture is under the same agri-environmental policy regime designed for general agriculture. We argue that the specific needs of periurban agriculture may justify ad hoc agri-environmental policy measures. We present results from a Choice Experiment (CE) performed on a sample of 600 people living in the municipality of Milan, which was designed to assess the willingness to pay (WTP) for ecological benefits generated by four agri-environmental practices implementable in the periurban area and already included in the Rural Development Programmes of the Lombardy region. Results suggest that a large population share is willing to pay to support an increase in the use of the agricultural practices studied with an average WTP ranging between 5.6 to 16.3 euro/person/year, according to the type of practice. These results are in contrast with their current low level of adoption. The sub-optimal uptake rate is likely due to an insufficient per hectare compensating payment, which is too low to cover the income foregone consequent to the adoption of sustainable agriculture measures in this area. The mismatch between the low uptake rate and the high social benefits generated by the four agri-environmental agricultural practices sheds light on the need to design agri-environmental policy programmes specifically targeted to periurban areas, where the costs of compliance with AEMs are high and the social benefits of their adoption are large.
Q57|Risk averse policies foster bio-economic sustainability in mixed ﬁsheries|This paper examines the role of risk aversion on the sustainable management of multispecies ﬁsheries with technical interactions. We consider a bio-economic dynamic model of multiple species harvested by a single ﬂeet with uncertain costs of eﬀort. We assume that the regulatory agency aims at reaching MMEY (Multispecies Maxi-mum Economic Yield) in an uncertain context by maximizing the expected utility of total proﬁts, where utility is a quadratic function capturing risk aversion. We ana-lyze the impact of risk aversion on optimal ﬁshing eﬀort, proﬁt, production, biodiver-sity and conservation. We show analytically that such a risk-averse MMEY promotes bio-economic sustainability as it mitigates the risk of biological and economic over-exploitation of the diﬀerent species. Risk aversion also enhances biodiversity in the sense of evenness within the portfolio of the ﬁshery. However, by reducing the eﬀort, risk aversion lessens the expected proﬁt and food production. Thus, a trade-oﬀ be-tween diﬀerent bio-economic goals is exhibited through risk aversion. We illustrate the analytical ﬁndings with the case study of the Australian South East Fishery, where small risk aversion levels allow for high global bio-economic performances and balanced management objectives, therefore fostering sustainability.
Q57|Introducing Environmental Ethics into Economic Analysis: Some insights from Hans Jonas’ Responsibility Principle|This paper addresses how environmental ethics could be incorporated in economic analysis and more particularly how the Responsibility Principle of H. Jonas can provide useful insights into the analysis of sustainability issues. The challenges of environmental and social sustainability in terms of intergenerational fairness are analysed and involve a moral duty applicable to economic governance. The paper also explores to what extent responsibility, as an alternative to utilitarianism and as a principle facilitating the coordination of the agents involved, can be a first step towards the long-term and sustainable conservation of Nature.
Q57|Impact Of Climate Dynamics On Cyclical Properties Of Wine Production In Douro Region Using A Time-Frequency Approach|In this paper we model the impact of climate dynamics on wine production temporal cycles for the period 1933 to 2013 in the Douro wine region. We identify the cyclical properties of wine production and which cycles are de-termined by spring temperature and soil water levels during summer. We find that the in-season spring temperature as well as the temperatures of two and three years ago explain about 65% of the variability of wine pro-duction. When the soil water level in summer is incorporated, the R2 in-creases to 83% minimizing the Akaike criterion. The effects of soil water in wine production are depending on the timing. The in-season effect of an increase in soil water is negative, whilst soil water from two and three years ago have a positive effect on wine production. There is a stable but non- constant link between production and the spring temperature. The temper-ature is responsible for two long-medium cycles of 5.8 year and 4.2 years as well as a short one of 2.4 years that began since the 80s. The soil water level can explain 60% of the 7 years cycles of wine production as well as a short one of 2.3 years cycle which has been happening since the 90s. We also identify a shift of the relative importance away from temperature to soil water. Despite using a new an extended dataset, our results largely confirm the results of the impact of climate on the wine production in Douro region in our previous research. Modelling the impact of climate on the wine production can be an important instrument contributing for mitigation strategies facing the projected climate conditions in order to remain com-petitive in the market.
Q57|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/Daly versus Solow/Stiglitz|This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a “model-based methodology”, where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of “unbounded resources productivity”. On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of “thermodynamic limits to production”, later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of “interdisciplinary consistency” which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms
Q57|A Cost–Benefit Approach for Prioritizing Invasive Species|Biological invasions entail massive biodiversity losses and tremendous economic impacts that justify significant management efforts. Because the funds available to control biological invasions are limited, there is a need to identify priority species. In this paper, we first review current invasive species prioritization methods and explicitly highlight their strengths and pitfalls. We then construct a cost–benefit optimization framework that offers the theoretical foundations of a simple method for the management of multiple invasive species under a limited budget. We provide an algorithm to operationalize this framework and render explicit the assumptions required to satisfy the management objective.
Q57|Manufacturing doubt|In their efforts to affect regulations, firms have developed specific strategies to exploit scientific uncertainty. They have manufactured doubt by hiring and funding dissenting scientists, by producing and publicizing favorable scientific findings and by generally concealing their involvement in biased research. We propose a new model to study the interplay between scientific uncertainty, firms' miscommunication and public policies. The government is benevolent but populist, and maximizes social welfare as perceived by citizens. The industry can produce costly reports showing that its activity is not harmful. Citizens are unaware of the industry's miscommunication. We first characterize the industry's optimal miscommunication policy. The industry notably ceases miscommunicating abruptly when scientists' belief reaches a critical threshold. We identify a natural condition under which miscommunication is stronger under a tax on emissions than under command and control. We then analyze research funding. A populist government may support research to enable firms to falsely reassure citizens. Establishing an independent research agency helps limit the welfare losses induced by populist policies.
Q57|Water as freedom in the Brazilian Amazon|Universal access to the commons, such as to clean water, might be seen as a strong challenge to development as freedom. Beyond water scarcity, several regions are already suffering from lack of access, even where water is abundant. Meanwhile, climate change, overpopulation and agricultural demand are severely affecting the quality and availability of water resources. At the global level, concerns about water are tied to the Amazon Region, which contains the greatest potential water stock in the world, and which simultaneously faces the worst troubles in access and supply. This paper is therefore aimed at pointing out the role inclusive social innovations can play in mitigating the impact of growing water shortages and securing effective water use. After a first introduction to Brazil, Amazonas and ParÃ state statistics on water-related aspects, the research focuses on results emerging from the AguaSociAL project.
Q57|Neighborhood effects in the Brazilian Amazônia: Protected areas and deforestation|This article investigates whether protected areas are efficient instruments against deforestation in the Brazilian Amazônia. A Dynamic Spatial Durbin Model taking into account both the location bias and the spatial spillover effects between municipalities allows to assess the impact of the different types of protected areas (integral protected areas, sustainable protected areas and indigenous lands) on deforestation. We show that deforestation decisions are strategic complements. The econometric results differ according to the type of protected area. It is shown that: i) integral protected areas and indigenous lands allow for reducing deforestation; ii) sustainable use areas do not help to reduce deforestation; and iii) the spillover effects generated by integral protected areas and indigenous lands lead a reduction in deforestation in their vicinity. A 10% increase in the surface area of integral protected areas (indigenous lands) allows an estimated 9.32 sq. km (10.08 sq. km) of avoided deforestation.
Q57|Does the Identifiable Victim Effect Matter for Plants? Results From a Quasi-experimental Survey of French Farmers|Numerous studies showed that people respond more generously to individual identified victims than to equivalent statistical victims, which is referred to as the “identifiable victim effect” (IVE). While the previous literature examined the IVE for human and animal victims, we focus on vegetal entities that can be threatened. Thanks to a between design allowing to increase the degree of plants' identifiability, we test whether IVE is likely to enhance farmers' participation in a conservation program, using mail survey data among a sample of French farmers located in the Vaucluse area. Unlike humans and animals, we found that IVE does not matter regarding plants, as farmer willingness to participate in the compensation measures was found to decrease as the (plant) victim(s) become more identifiable. Moreover, this figure is even stronger with respect to organic farmers compared to their conventional counterparts.
Q57|Sustainable regional development policy formation: role of industrial ecology and logistics|"The impossibility to define the clear and uniform operational guidelines for the implementation of sustainable development policy globally proves the necessity to consider the regional level as the key in terms of developing and implementing modern models of sustainable development, in particular, eco-industrial parks and circular economy projects. It substantiates the need to develop and use the modern innovative methodological approaches to the formation of the relevant regional policy. The circular economy proceeds from the flow-based understanding of the character of the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of goods in the socio-economic system and, consequently, the turnover of resources and energy within this system. It determines the need for complex analysis and regulation of material and energy flows. These issues constitute the scope of research of industrial ecology and, at the same time, logistics. This causes the question of the integration of these disciplines within the system of scientific and methodological support of the processes of formation and implementation of the policy of sustainable region's development that is as yet little investigated. The article studies the theoretical and methodological foundations of the industrial ecology and logistics, such as objects, goals, methodological principles and approaches, methods, organizational forms, etc. On this basis the ontological unity of these disciplines is brought to light: they simultaneously study the different, mutually reinforcing aspects of the industrial system's performance through the accentuation of the flow form of the organization of the movement of resources, information, and energy as an object of regulation in such system. The integration of the ""environmental"" vision of material flows of the regional system, as is characteristic of the industrial ecology, with their ""economic"" content, which characterizes the structure of the regional economic system and constitutes the object of the logistics studies, should be considered as the basis for the formation and implementation of the policy aimed to achieve the region's sustainable development goals."
Q57|Do redlisted species follow Benford's law?|"Benford's law describes how different numbers are distributed as first figures in statistics. The law states, for example, that the number 1 should be the first digit in 30.1% of cases, the figure 2 in 17.6% of the cases and the figure 9 in 4.6% of the cases. If Benford's law is violated, it may be an indication that the numbers may be manipulated, or more generally of low quality. Possibly the most high-profile case is the investigation of the Greek macroeconomic accounts. The Stability and Growth Pact of the EU imposes certain constraints on member countries budget deficits, and there were concerns about the Greek economy in the 2000s. According to some observers, it was ""well-known"" among EU-officials that the Greece numbers were ""cooked"". It is then of some interest to note that the Greek macroeconomic data were those that showed the most significant deviation from Benford's law, compared to all other EU-countries, according to the analysis of Rauch et al (2011). Analysis of the law has used different data sets: Sandron (2003) studies the population of 198 countries (good agreement); Ley (1996) finds that one-day returns for some American indexes follow the law; Gonzalez-Garcia and Pastor (2010) shows that macroeconomic data generally follows Benford's law. Nigrini & Mittelmaier (1997) produces a test for accounting fraud analysis. According to Stigler's (1980) law, the name of the discoverer is often different from the name of the law; it is seemingly widely acknowledged that Newcomb (1881) already made the discovery. Fellman (2014) provides a comprehensive review of the literature. Intuitively, the law does not work well for certain types of data, such as length of humans, where the majority of the numbers start with 1 and a few with 2. We must also have a large data base, so that we have ""enough"" variation in the data. It is not a very intuitive law, although there are some attempts to show that the law follows from certain mathematical arguments. Our approach here is just to apply the law to a certain data-set and explore whether or not it holds true. The law does not prove that the quality of data is bad, but it is sufficiently well tested in so many contexts that a deviation from the law merits a closer investigation of the data generating process."
Q57|Do U.S. Anglers Care about Harmful Algal Blooms? A Discrete Choice Experiment of Lake Erie Recreational Anglers|Despite the growing awareness of harmful algal blooms (HABs) in the United States and abroad, estimates of welfare losses due to their presence are missing from the literature. Using a mail survey of 767 Ohio Lake Erie recreational angler respondents and a choice experiment, this study provides the first empirical quantification of the economic impacts of HABs on U.S. recreational anglers. Our results demonstrate a significant and substantial willingness to pay by anglers for reduction in HABs, beyond the benefits associated with conventional water quality measures such as catch rates and water clarity. For instance, we find that anglers are willing to pay $8 to $10 more per trip for one less mile of boating through HABs en route to a fishing site. This finding suggests that explicit measures of HABs need to be collected and considered when valuing water quality in nutrient-rich bodies of water. We evaluate the welfare improvements resulting from several nutrient reduction policies, and find that anglers are willing to pay on average $40 to $60 per trip for a policy that cuts upstream phosphorus loadings by 40%. The majority of welfare gains for anglers result from improving the non-catchable component of the fishing experience, notably water clarity and HAB reduction, as opposed to better chances of angler success.
Q57|Social Rewards and the Design of Voluntary Incentive Mechanism for Biodiversity Protection on Farmland|The paper examines how endogenous social preferences could affect economic incentive design to encourage biodiversity protection on private land. A 'green' farmer may enjoy esteem from leading by example if there are few farmers who do the right thing. In contrast a farmer without social preferences ('brown' farmer) might merely tick the boxes and is expected to shirk from the desired environmental actions whenever possible unless this affects their reputation. The paper also analyzes the design of an incentive scheme that takes into account both types of farmers ('green' or 'brown') under asymmetric information about their true motivation. It follows that under perfect Bayesian equilibrium, the regulator can separate out the farmer types in a two-period setting by monitoring their voluntary conservation actions in response to payment in the first period. The optimal mechanism would be a mixture of a facilitation contract with small monetary incentive but high visibility to keep 'green' farmers interested and a higher monetary-incentive contract to attract the brown farmers.
Q57|Incentivising Participation and Spatial Coordination in Payment for Ecosystem Service Schemes: Forest Disease Control Programs in Finland|This paper considers the problem of designing PES-type contracts to encourage participation and spatial coordination amongst private forest owners in Finland. The aim of the policy is to increase efforts to mitigate risks from invasive forest pests and diseases. Such control actions yield spill-over benefits to other landowners and to wider society, meaning that the level of privately-optimal disease control is likely to be less than the socially-optimal level. The policy designer may wish to encourage spatial coordination in the uptake of such PES-type contracts, as spatial coordination delivers an increase in the effectiveness of control measures on disease risks. We conducted a choice experiment with private forest owners in Finland in October 2016. The study elicited the preferences of woodland owners with respect to the design of forest disease control contracts, and gauged their willingness to cooperate with neighbouring forest owners within the framework of such programs.
Q57|Periurban Agriculture: do the Current EU Agri-environmental Policy Programmes Fit with it?|In the European Union (EU) periurban agriculture is under the same agri-environmental policy regime designed for general agriculture. We argue that the specific needs of periurban agriculture may justify ad hoc agri-environmental policy measures. We present results from a Choice Experiment (CE) performed on a sample of 600 people living in the municipality of Milan, which was designed to assess the willingness to pay (WTP) for ecological benefits generated by four agri-environmental practices implementable in the periurban area and already included in the Rural Development Programmes of the Lombardy region. Results suggest that a large population share is willing to pay to support an increase in the use of the agricultural practices studied with an average WTP ranging between 5.6 to 16.3 euro/person/year, according to the type of practice. These results are in contrast with their current low level of adoption. The sub-optimal uptake rate is likely due to an insufficient per hectare compensating payment, which is too low to cover the income foregone consequent to the adoption of sustainable agriculture measures in this area. The mismatch between the low uptake rate and the high social benefits generated by the four agri-environmental agricultural practices sheds light on the need to design agri-environmental policy programmes specifically targeted to periurban areas, where the costs of compliance with AEMs are high and the social benefits of their adoption are large.
Q57|Information on biodiversity and environmental behaviors: a European study of individual and institutional drivers to adopt sustainable gardening practices|The identification of individual and institutional drivers regarding ecological transition of individual behaviors has been widely studied in the literature. However, few studies report the specific case of private gardening practices, even though it is particularly relevant when discussing lifestyle habits and ecological transition, due to the wide range of positive and negative environmental externalities private gardens may generate. Using a European database (Eurobarometer 83.4), we estimate individual and institutional drivers of sustainable gardening practices. Our econometric approach takes the specificities of our data into account, by using a two-step approach combining a generalized Heckman model and a meta-regression, and allows us to highlight the importance of the accessibility to biodiversity-related information in the adoption of environmentally friendly behaviors. Differentiated trends between European countries are tested using indicators on economic development, social capital and environmental performances. In conclusion, we provide some recommendations in terms of public policies.
Q57|The Ecological Insurance Trap|Common pool resources often insure individual livelihoods against the collapse of private endeavors. When endeavors based on private and common pool resources are interconnected, investment in one may put the other at risk. We model Senegalese pastoralists who choose whether to grow crops, a private activity, or raise livestock on common pool pastureland. Livestock can increase the likelihood of locust outbreaks via ecological processes related to grassland degradation. Locust outbreaks damage crops, but not livestock, which are used for savings and insurance. We show the incentive to self-protect (reduce grazing pressure) or self-insure (increase livestock levels) changes with various property rights schemes and levels of ecological detail. If the common pool nature of insurance exacerbates the ecological externality even fully-informed individuals may make decisions that increase the probability of catastrophe, creating an “insurance trap.”
Q57|What drives the withdrawal of protected areas? Evidence from the Brazilian Amazon|Since the late 1970s protected areas have been one of the most widely used regulatory tools for the conservation of ecosystem services. In this paper, we assess the possible drivers to the choice of withdrawing protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon. Protected areas are subject to inefficiencies because of the existence of conflicts over land between conservation and development activities. Further additionality is an issue, as protected areas tend to be located in areas with low opportunity cost of conservation, where forests are not likely to be cleared. This issue is particularly important in the Brazilian Amazon where growing development must be combined with the need to avoid deforestation. We first present a simple model of degazettement choice which leads us to assess how the presence of two agencies having different development and conservation objectives can lead to implementing this decision. We suggest that the probability to decide the removal of protected areas is larger in places with low and high development pressures. Then, we investigate the empirical determinants of protected area withdrawal by taking advantages of the new PADDDtracker (Protected Area Downgradement, Degazettement and Downsizement) dataset (WWF, 2017b). We confirm that the likelihood of degazettement is strongly influenced by development pressures, through characteristics of the land that enable agricultural development, and by variables related to protected area quality of enforcement and management costs. As protected areas located in highest pressure areas are more likely to be additional, there is a risk that only the most effective protected areas may loose their protection.
Q57|Retos asociados al uso del suelo: El dilema entre conservación y producción en los Bosques Andinos de Robles del Corredor Ecológico Guantiva-La Rusia-Iguaque|Preservar los Bosques Andinos de Robles es de gran importancia dado su valor intrínseco y los servicios ecosistémicos ofrecidos que favorecen el bienestar humano. No obstante, las prácticas de ganadería extensiva en el territorio nacional generan presión sobre su existencia. Aplicando un modelo de optimización dinámica que considera el valor del bosque por diversos servicios ecosistémicos, se busca entender el trade-off entre conservación y ganadería, así como las complejas relaciones entre los hombres y la naturaleza. De acuerdo a los resultados, debería conservarse entre el 62.7% y 99.4% del bosque dependiendo de la magnitud y valores de los parámetros. Finalmente, este documento busca aportar a la discusión sobre recomendaciones de política que favorezcan la conservación de los ecosistemas boscosos.
Q57|Acción colectiva para abordar conflictos socio-ambientales. El caso de Santurbán|El presente capítulo describe y analiza un proceso participativo llevado a cabo con el propósito de apoyar la construcción de acuerdos colectivos y un sistema de monitoreo ciudadano para el manejo sostenible de las cuencas de los ríos Suratá, en Santander, y Zulia y Pamplonita en Norte de Santander, asociadas al Complejo de Páramos Jurisdicciones Santurbán Berlín (CPJSB). Luego de presentar brevemente el contexto de la intervención, el capítulo presenta el Marco conceptual para el análisis institucional y desarrollo (IAD, por sus siglas en inglés) (Ostrom, 2005), el cual ha guiado tanto el diseño del proceso y enmarca la presentación, descripción y análisis del mismo en este documento. En seguida se presentan de manera sucinta tanto las actividades realizadas como los resultados alcanzados a febrero de 2016. Por último, a modo de conclusión, se ofrecen una serie de reflexiones finales sobre los retos que Colombia enfrenta para el manejo del agua, sus cuencas hidrográficas y ecosistemas de páramo. Se presentan y discuten brevemente también los aprendizajes que, para encarar tales retos, se pueden derivar de procesos participativos como el aquí documentado. La presentación de las limitaciones y alcances del proceso expuesto ayudan también a generar pistas sobre cómo organizar y llevar a cabo este tipo de intervenciones encaminadas a fortalecer la acción colectiva para abordar las tensiones y discrepancias en torno al manejo de ecosistemas estratégicos como los páramos y sus recursos naturales.
Q57|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|An analytical, ecosystemic, epistemological and methodological framework, encompassing the combination and co-design of four dimensions of being in the world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), is posited to identify and deal with the problems of difficult settlement or solution in the world, reconceptualising roles and drives, in view of a transformative change of the current paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom embedded at institutional, cultural, economic and political level.
Q57|Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives|Between mountain regions and biodiversity exists a direct and indissoluble link: the mountain areas represent, perhaps, the most important source of eco-systems at global level, true scientific laboratories for researching and learning about the evolution and distribution of species and live bodies, about the relationships between these and about their adjustment to various environments and about the crucial influences of human actions, that led to the current climate changes. The mountains operate as true refuge for endemic species affected by uncontrolled human actions, while alpine meadows are exposed to losses of traditional pasture practices. The diverse and complex mountainous regions are the core elements of the environmental and sustainable development policies, the difficulties and problems encountered by these areas in adjusting to the new climate changes requiring adequate, swift and especially permanent (continuously supported) measures. The mountains belong, as a rule, to environmental geography but, just the same, they may be analysed also from the economic, social, cultural viewpoint, etc. as their multi-disciplinary nature is acknowledged both in the academic milieu but also by the decision factors involved in territorial development policy. Recently, the New Economic Geography, promoted intensively at global level, considers economic and social development of mountain regions of particular importance: mountain areas are important sources for raw materials and materials necessary for basic output and consumption (agriculture, industry, services) an aspect which affects under the present circumstances, both biodiversity and the living standard of local communities. The economic perspective is of particular importance both at the level of regional groups of interest, but the more so at the local level for the communities depending directly and permanently on the resources and conditions provided by the mountain. The negative impact on the mountain area of economic activities is increasingly more visible both at high and low altitude and therefore it should lead to a common vision and sustainable approach regarding the state of the biodiversity for this area because affecting a habitat might attract also the destruction of the entire ecologic balance which is already very fragile nowadays. Having as starting point the above considerations, the present paper provides a broad image of the relationship between the biodiversity of the mountain area and the implications of its economic and social development by resorting foremost to national and international documentary sources, to statistic data and information which attempt to complete the global image about the evolution of the relationship in time and space.
Q57|Teachers’ environmental knowledge and pro-environmental behavior: An application of CNS and EID scales|Environmental education’s teachers are responsible to endow students with the knowledge, values, attitudes and skills necessary to protect and sustain the environment. The current study investigates Greek teachers’ environmental attitudes, behavior and knowledge via Connectedness to Nature Scale (CNS) and Environmental Identity (EID) Scale. The approach combines applied methodological research like item analysis and Factor Analysis. Teachers’ derived scores in both scales were high confirming their positive attitudes in terms of the environment. Furthermore, teachers have positive environmental attitudes, showing pro-environmental behavior but also a moderate level of environmental knowledge.
Q57|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q57|Sustainable management of fish stock: An assessment of small-scale fishing in Greece|The aim of this study was to identify the main métiers practiced by gillnet, trammel net and combined net fishery in the Kalymnos Island. The catch was obtained every 15 days of the small-scale fleet for the period from February 2013 to May 2014 by interviews during unloading. A total 315 fishing operations were recorded. Multivariate analysis applied to either species landings composition or economic revenue. The most important métiers identified were those B. boops with gillnet, intense fishing activity during December-February and mesh size 26 mm, métier which targeting S. porcus and S. officinalis with fishing gear trammel net, intense fishing activity during April-May and mesh size 26 mm. Both of these métiers appeared high produce and income. The results of this study confirm the multi-species natural of small-scale fishing and fishing activity in the area of Kalymnos specific difference from the other area in Greece.
Q57|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|The ecosystemic approach favours the development of healthy societies, that invest in each other rather than in mega-projects with intensive use of resources, it extends to environmental problems, quality of life and the state of the world a larger conceptual framework that includes ontological and epistemological issues, in view of the isomorphy and transfers of concepts, laws and models in various fields; it relates to how taken for granted worldviews, values and perceptions affect the definition and treatment of the problems by public policies, research and teaching programmes in the contemporary world.
Q57|Degrowth and sustainable public finance|Using well-known results from public debt dynamics, it is shown that in case of degrowth a sustainable public debt is very unlikely to achieve. Degrowth requires that negative real interest rates have to be maintained which might imply accelerated inflation, or other severe goal conflicts of public finance will result.
Q57|Sustainability of global feeding.Coopetitive interaction among vegan and non-vegan food firms|In this paper, we face the problem of global feeding sustainability and related environmental issues, with a strong attention to possible public heath improvements. Specifically, we shall consider food producers and sellers of vegan (or vegetarian) and non-vegan (or non-vegetarian) food. We propose possible quantitative agreements among different food producers, in order to develop a sustainable healthier diet for future generations, by using a mathematical co-opetitive approach and game theory. The co-opetitive approach used by the authors provides a game theory model, which could help producers of vegan food an easier entry in global market and obtain a considerable free publicity. Meanwhile, the model could allow big producers/sellers of non-vegetarian food a smooth rapid transaction to more sustainable and healthier vegan or vegetarian production/supply. In particular, we propose an exemplary complex agreement setting among McDonald's and Muscle of Wheat, a small but strongly innovative Italian food producer. We think that, on one hand, Muscle of Wheat cannot enter a global market without the help of a large globalized food producer already present in the market, on the other hand, we think equally difficult that a large static and poorly innovative producer cannot follow credibly and rapidly enough the increasing and challenging issues of global food sustainability. We remark that our game model represents an asymmetric R&D alliance between McDonald's and Muscle of Wheat. The aim of our contribution is twofold. Firstly, we explain the advantages of a vegan diet for the human health, environmental issues, food sustainability, population sustainability; in fact, the model explain how global food producers could improve environmental, social and health conditions of world population. Secondly, we show how game theory normal-form and extensive-form games can be used in coopetition studies in order to increase health conditions of people, address climate change, address hunger in the world, improve welfare in a particular market. The results of the mathematical study prove that we can find win-win solutions for both firms, which are also good for world environment, human healthy, human population sustainability and climate change.
Q57|The impact of oil prices on CO2 emissions in China: A Wavelet coherence approach|This paper observes the possible co-movements of oil price and CO2 emissions in China by following wavelet coherence and wavelet partial coherence analyses to be able to depict short-run and long-run co-movements at both low and high frequencies. To this end, this research might provide the current literature with the output of potential short run and long run, structural, changes in CO2 emissions upon a shock (a change) in oil prices in China together with the control variables of World oil prices, fossil energy consumption, and renewables consumption, and, urban population in China. Therefore, this research aims at determining wavelet coherencies between the variables and phase differences to exhibit the leading variable in potential co-movements. By following the time domain and frequency domain analyses of this research, one may claim that the oil prices in China has considerable negative impact on CO2 emissions at high frequencies for the periods 1960-2014 and 1971-2014 in China. Besides, one may underline as well other important output of the research exploring that the urban population and CO2 emissions have positive associations, move together for the period 1960-2014 in China. Eventually, this paper might suggest that authorities follow demand side management policies considering energy demand behavior at both shorter cycles and longer cycles to diminish the CO2 emissions in China.
Q57|Pengaruh Mesin Pengolahan Greding Kopi Terhadap Kesejahteraan Ekonomi Petani Kopi Di Kelompok Tani Mukti Cipanjalu Jawa Barat<BR>[The Effect of Processing Machine for Grading of Coffea on the Economic Welfare of Farmer Group of Cipanjalu West Java]|The coffee plant is a source of foreign exchange country of the plantation sector .One in west java coffee producing the areas are the palintang, cipanjalu village, cilengkrang sub district , bandung regency .With the modern coffee machine tool for bringing positive impacts in this area, because it can enhance productivity coffee, that he was high on the market. Taken with melakukkan surveys and interviews in the area. The machine used in processing coffee one is greding coffee serves homogenize coffee beans in terms of size. This will enhance the economic value of coffee
Q57|Aspek Ekonomi Dari Budidaya Tanaman Kapas (Gossypium hirsutum L.)Di Indonesia<BR>[Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) Cultivation in View of Economy Aspect in Indonesia]|Abstract Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) is one of the natural fiber-producing plantation commodities for textile industry raw materials that play a role in Indonesia's non-oil and gas exports. Cotton production in Indonesia has not been able to meet national cotton needs, this is because the development of cotton in Indonesia has experienced many obstacles, especially in the maintenance of plants that have not been optimal. One effort that can be done is through improving agricultural cultivation techniques from seeding, land preparation to maintenance which include irrigation, fertilization, planting, thinning and pest and disease control. Domestic cotton fiber production is less than 5% of national demand, while the raw material needs of the textile industry continue to increase from year to year in line with the growing population. Realizing this, the government since 2007 has tried to continue to increase cotton production from the implementation of the IKR program, P2WK, OECF projects, self-help from farmers to the Acceleration (cotton acceleration) program.
Q57|Sharia hotels in Indonesia: Concept and potential analysis|This article describes the concept and analysis of potential sharia hotels in Indonesia. Using a phenomenological approach, this study concludes that sharia hotels have become part of the halal tourism industry and the need for Muslim communities in Indonesia in the future.
Q57|Enhancing Climate Finance Readiness: A Review of Selected Investment Frameworks as Tools of Multilevel Governance|The International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) has estimated that to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit global mean temperature rise to well below 2° Celsius, new forms of low-carbon investment must be unlocked and cost-effectively doubled by 2030. This level of deployment of low-carbon solutions require doubling current investment in renewable energy to US$500 billion per year up to 2020 and tripling in the 2020s to reach US$900 billion each year up to 2030. However, the mechanisms for scaling up such investments remain constrained by high transaction costs, insufficient investment size, and limited market liquidity. We explore recent development of climate investment readiness frameworks (CIRFs) and their application in support of low-carbon development strategies. The paper focuses on two objectives driving the creation and use of such frameworks: (a) barriers to attracting large-scale private investment in climate-sensitive technologies, and (b) how these barriers can be reduced through effective capacity building mechanisms. We consider the utility of the main investment readiness (IR) frameworks with a particular focus on their contributions to developing a climate investment-friendly policy regime through appropriate governance reforms and technical capacity building measures. Important connections between the performance of climate investment readiness frameworks and broader governance issues are highlighted. Conclusions for strengthening such frameworks as tools of multilevel governance regimes are offered.
Q57|Dynamics between islamic banking performance and CO2 emissions: evidence from the OIC countries|This paper is an humble initial attempt at studying the effects of Islamic Banking performance on CO2 Emissions among OIC countries. Recently, there has been increasing awareness surrounding Sustainability Development Goals (SDG), which is what inspired this study. While SDG data is quite limited, there is a substantial record of CO2 Emissions, which is one of the components in calculating the SDG index. While extensive research has been done on environmental performance and firm profitability in the conventional space, there are limited studies on this area in the Islamic Finance space. The core issue that will be investigated in this paper is to assess if Islamic Banking performance is impacted or influenced by CO2 emissions. Islamic Bank Performance will be measured using aggregate Return on Equity (ROE), and Return on Asset (ROA) figures for all banks in the OIC region. This study employs GMM Panel Technique given the dynamic nature of the data. The main contribution of this paper is it is among the first attempts at examining this unique area. Islamic Finance is not only about Shariah compliant product structures, but also its overall impact on society itself (CO2 emissions serves as a measure of this). The key conclusion is that there is a correlation between Islamic Bank performance and CO2 emissions. However, in some cases the correlation was found to be positive (when examining ROA) and in others negative (when examining ROE). Policy makers need to study the trends in order to provide guidelines that would motivate the Islamic Banking industry to reduce emissions.
Q57|Benefit sharing mechanisms for agricultural genetic diversity use and in-situ conservation|The agricultural genetic diversity is reducing at an accelerating pace. Benefit sharing mechanisms are well-known instruments to incentivize local genetic resource providers to maintain in-situ diversity and to avoid free-riding behaviour by multinational bioprospecting firms. We explore the role of these mechanisms in a setting where the output of bioprospecting activities (i.e. a modern seeds variety), competes with traditional agriculture, and the latter is necessary to conserve the genetic pool from which the multinational could extract the resources for developing new modern varieties in the future. We adopt a multistage game where the multinational anticipates the impact of its bioprospecting investments and price settings on the local owner incentives to conserve genetic diversity. We focus our attention on two benefit sharing mechanisms, namely profits sharing and technology transfers, and compare them with a benchmark featuring free genetic resources access. Our main conclusions suggest that incentives to conservation are the strongest under profit sharing, while a technology transfer produces a genetic erosion that is even higher than under free access. These results shed new light on policy design, especially in developing countries where agricultural genetic diversity is a strategic natural asset.
Q57|Towards incorporating natural capital into a computable general equilibrium model for Scotland|Natural capital encompasses those assets which are provided by nature and which are valued by economic actors. As such, there is a clear analogy between natural and other assets, such as physical capital, which are routinely included in models of national economies. However, the valuation of natural assets, to the extent that they are included in such economic models, is typically wrapped up in physical capital along with land values or not valued at all. This could be simply a measurement problem - natural capital might be difficult to appropriately disaggregate from other capital - or because they provide non-market goods which are not included within traditional measures of economic output. The purpose of this paper is to set out - both conceptually and practically - how natural capital can be added to a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. We focus on: the conceptual differences that should be reflected in such an extension; the challenges of implementing the extension in practice; and identifying the value added generated by an appropriately augmented model. We explore the empirical implementation of our approach through the addition of carbon emissions and an agricultural biomass ecosystem service flow to our CGE model of the Scottish economy. This working paper specifies this CGE model development, but does not go as far as fully implementing it in the CGE model. When fully implemented in the context of a CGE with a disaggregated agriculture sector, this will allow us simultaneously to track the impact of disturbances, including policy changes, on the economy and the environment and therefore on sustainable development. In the longer-term comprehensive coverage of natural capital stocks and ecosystem services will allow us to track the impact of disturbances, including policy interventions, on Green GDP and Genuine Savings, as well as on aggregate and sectoral economic activity, energy use and emissions.
Q57|Forecast density combinations of dynamic models and data driven portfolio strategies|A dynamic asset-allocation model is specified in probabilistic terms as a combination of return distributions resulting from multiple pairs of dynamic models and portfolio strategies based on momentum patterns in US industry returns. The nonlinear state space representation of the model allows efficient and robust simulation-based Bayesian inference using a novel non-linear filter. Combination weights can be cross-correlated and correlated over time using feedback mechanisms. Diagnostic analysis gives insight into model and strategy misspecification. Empirical results show that a smaller flexible model-strategy combination performs better in terms of expected return and risk than a larger basic model-strategy combination. Dynamic patterns in combination weights and diagnostic learning provide useful signals for improved modeling and policy, in particular, from a risk-management perspective.
Q57|Conservation auctions, collusion and the endowment effect|We contribute to the literature on the optimal design of auction mechanisms for the procurement of nature conservation activities. We use an economic experiment to examine whether the market efficiency of conservation auctions increases or decreases with repetition. Theory predicts that repetition facilitates collusion among sellers in procurement auctions, while behavioral economics suggests that repetition may increase market efficiency because it attenuates the endowment effect - the phenomenon that ownership of a good tends to increase one's valuation of the good. We find that of these two countervailing effects, the latter has the upper hand; average bids decrease monotonically over the consecutive auctions. Since repetition increases market efficiency, conservation contracts can be of shorter duration and procured at a higher frequency than has been suggested before.
Q57|Analysing Group Contract Design Using a Lab and a Lab-in-the-Field Threshold Public Good Experiment|This paper presents the results of a threshold public goods game experiment with heterogeneous players. The experiment is designed in close collaboration with the Dutch association of agri-environmental farmer collectives. Subjects are recruited at a university (“the lab”) and a farm management training centre (“lab-in-the-field”). The treatments have two different distribution rules which are varied in a within-subjects manner. After subjects have experienced both, they can vote for one of the two rules: either a differentiated bonus that results in equal payoff for all, or an undifferentiated, equal share of the group bonus. In a between-subjects manner, subjects can vote for a (minimum or average) threshold or are faced with an exogenous threshold. The results indicate that exogenous thresholds perform better, possibly because the focal point they provide facilitates coordination. With regard to the two distribution rules, the results are mixed: average contributions and payoffs are higher in the lab under the ‘equal-payoff’ rule, but there is no significant difference between the two in the lab-in-the-field, possibly because contributions in the lab-in-the-field are much less efficient. Overall, our results suggest that environmental payment schemes should not only consider farmer heterogeneity in the design of group contracts, but pay explicit attention to coordination problems as well.
Q57|Park Life: Assessing the need to Understand User Group Needs when Balancing Commercial Enterprise with Biodiversity Conservation|This report outlines and reviews the findings of a collaborative project between researchers at The University of East Anglia (UEA) and Brandon Country Park. The former were commissioned to undertake two surveys to elicit the opinions of current users and stakeholders regarding their perceptions of the park, with particular emphasis on how this improves their mental, physical and social well-being. Information was then used to identify how the facility might be improved. 200 surveys were conducted through July 2016, asking questions which referred to park usage, attitudes and socio-demographic status. These responses were combined with a qualitative focus group, and using these mixed-methods field experiment techniques provided an in-depth examination of user perspectives on how to best manage this woodland amenity. The overall results pinpoint some key interactions between the key mental and physical benefits of such a facility, and yet the trade-offs that these human sources of welfare may create for wider biodiversity conservation.
Q57|Is a peaceful cohabitation between living species possible? An empirical analysis on the drivers of threatened species|Some scientific views argue that human population and economic activities might be expanding at the cost of other biological species. Hence, this paper proposes an empirical analysis on the case of threatened animal and plant species, exploiting an international panel dataset to test whether there is a peaceful cohabitation with human activities. Applying count data regression techniques we show, on the one hand, that human population growth and agricultural production harm animal and plant species. On the other hand, our results indicate that the number of threatened animal and plant species depicts an inverted U-shaped curve with income per capita. Our analysis further suggests that the more biological species-rich a region is, the more threatened species it holds, other things being equal. Globally compared to developing countries, developed countries definitely appear to be threatening fewer animal and plant species, suggesting a possible peaceful cohabitation between living species.
Q57|Information sharing is not always the right option when it comes to CPR extraction management: experimental finding|We experimentally investigate the impact of information sharing in a common pool resource game. More precisely, we test whether the voluntary disclosure of the decision by a player has a positive impact on the extraction level exhibited by the group compared to the level observed when decisions are compulsory disclosed. We design an experiment composed by three treatments: a mandatory disclosure treatment and two treatments where players are free to choose whether or not to disclose their decisions. The latter differ by the degree of freedom given to players. In the treatment « Voluntary Free Disclosure » players are also free to choose the extraction level that is displayed, while in the treatment « Voluntary Binary Disclosure » if the player discloses h(is)er decision the value displayed is the effective extraction level. We observe that the voluntary disclosure has a positive effect in the social dilemma, measured by lower average extraction levels. However the disclosure mechanism should not allow to self-declare extraction: here it reveals a large tendency to lie leading to an increase in extraction.
Q57|Integrating non-timber objectives into bio-economic models of the forest sector: a review of recent innovations and current shortcomings|This paper gives an overview of non-timber objective modelling in forest sector models (FSM) research through a systematic literature review followed by an in-depth narrative review. Originally conceived to perform projections of timber supply and wood products markets, FSM have been growingly used for forest and climate policy analysis. For this purpose, they have gradually integrated objectives other than timber production, such as habitat conservation, carbon sequestration and bioenergy production. We identify these non-timber objectives and elicit technical innovations that have enabled their integration into FSM. We also discuss their current limits and the new perspectives they bring for a better economic-environmental assessment of forest policies. Results show that the study of non-timber objectives is a growing topic in FSM research, with bioenergy production and climate change mitigation as the most commonly studied. However, there are discrepancies regarding the respective contributions of different families of models, and not all non-timber objectives have been integrated to the same degree. On the one hand, bioenergy production has been thoroughly integrated through marginal modifications of the market component of models. On the other hand, the modelling of carbon sequestration and habitat protection entails deeper changes, such as the addition of new resources to the models, an increase in the complexity of the objective function and associated constraints, or the use of tools and models outside the FSM.
Q57|What drives the withdrawal of protected areas? Evidence from the Brazilian Amazon|Since the late 1970s protected areas have been one of the most widely used regulatory tools for the conservation of ecosystem services. In this paper, we assess the possible drivers to the choice of withdrawing protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon. Protected areas are subject to inefficiencies because of the existence of conflicts over land between conservation and development activities. Further additionality is an issue, as protected areas tend to be located in areas with low opportunity cost of conservation, where forests are not likely to be cleared. This issue is particularly important in the Brazilian Amazon where growing development must be combined with the need to avoid deforestation. We first present a simple model of degazettement choice which leads us to assess how the presence of two agencies having different development and conservation objectives can lead to implementing this decision. We suggest that the probability to decide the removal of protected areas is larger in places with low and high development pressures. Then, we investigate the empirical determinants of protected area withdrawal by taking advantages of the new PADDDtracker (Protected Area Downgradement, Degazettement and Downsizement) dataset (WWF, 2017b). We confirm that the likelihood of degazettement is strongly influenced by developmentpressures, through characteristics of the land that enable agricultural development, and by variables related to protected area quality of enforcement and management costs. As protected areas located in highest pressure areas are more likely to be additional, there is a risk that only the most effective protected areas may loose their protection.
Q57|From “Structural Change” to “Transformative Change”: Rationale and Implications|This paper examines the relationship between “Transformative Change,” advocated by the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, and “Structural Change,” which has been a longstanding and important concept in Development Economics. It shows that while structural change is still relevant, growing concerns for social development and environmental protection made it necessary to switch to the more encompassing concept of “Transformative Change” that provides greater space for inclusion and interaction of all three dimensions of sustainable development. The paper notes that, in the era of greater globalization, countries have followed more varied patterns of structural change, all of which are not equally suitable for sustainable development. The paper notes that Transformative Change subsumes structural change, and it discusses the modifications that structural change needs to be more compatible with sustainable development.
Q57|Attitudes Toward Climate Policies in a Macrodynamic Model of the Economy|In a recent article published in Ecological Economics, Guarini and Porcile (2016) expanded the Balance-of-Payments Constraint (BoPC) growth model in order to address the challenges posed by greenhouse gas emissions suggesting a way in which environmental variables can be included in the structure of this family of models. Building on their set up, we incorporate how people with di¤erent environmental attitudes or sentiments influence each other and contribute to the design of environmental policies. We detail the concept of transition probabilities for the agent's switching from pro- to anti-enviromental positions and vice-versa and discuss the macroeconomic results that follow. Numerical simulations allow us to investigate in more detail the implications of the validity of Porter's hypothesis as well as decoupling conditions.
Q57|Circular economy measures to keep plastics and their value in the economy, avoid waste and reduce marine litter|"We live in the plastic age (the ""plasticene""), producing over 300 million tonnes (mt) of plastic every year globally, 5-15 mt of which flow into already polluted oceans. Plastic remains a key material in the global economy, but low rates of collection, reuse and recycling, emissions of microplastic from product wear and tear, and often insufficient disposal measures are leading to far-reaching environmental, health, social and economic impacts. The costs of inaction are unacceptably high. Globally there is a growing recognition of the need to address marine litter and rethink our approach to plastics and plastic packaging within the economy. Measures that enable a transition to a circular economy can avoid waste and reduce marine litter, and contribute to keeping plastics and their value in the economy."
Q57|Nachhaltiges Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels als Aufgabe der räumlichen Planung: Eine Evaluation im planerischen Mehrebenensystem an den Beispielen der Altmark und des Landkreises Lüchow-Dannenbergs|Die Ressource Fläche ist weltweit begrenzt. Ein nachhaltiges Landmanagement ist, nicht nur vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels, erforderlich, um den verschiedenen Interessen an der Fläche gerecht zu werden. Bestehende Funktionen auf der Fläche, beispielsweise die Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln oder Rohstoffen sowie die Sicherung von Gewerbe- und Siedlungsgebieten unter Beachtung des Schutzes der Biodiversität, sind unter Anbetracht des Klimawandels zu sichern. Klimaschutzmaßnahmen wie der Schutz und die Entwicklung von Treibhausgassenken, beispielsweise Moore und Wälder, müssen neben Klimaanpassungsmaßnahmen, wie Hochwasserschutzflächen, mit den bestehenden Anforderungen an die Fläche vereint werden. Die räumliche Planung, so der Ausgangspunkt der Dissertation, kann durch die sektorübergreifende Betrachtung bei einem nachhaltigen Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels eine zentrale Aufgabe übernehmen. Die vorliegende Arbeit definiert räumliche Planung als formelle Raumordnung und informelle Raumentwicklung. Demnach umfasst räumliche Planung neben formellen planerischen Prozessen im Mehrebensystem der Raumplanung auch informelle planerische Strukturen und Prozesse. Ziel der räumlichen Planung ist es, Abwägungsprozesse zwischen den verschiedenen Interessen an einem Raum durchzuführen und damit Flächeninanspruchnahmen zu koordinieren. Durch das Mehrebenensystem der räumlichen Planung werden auf den verschiedenen Verwaltungsebenen planerische Festlegungen getroffen und in die nächste Ebene übertragen, konkretisiert oder als Grundlage verwendet. In diesem Gegenstromprinzip arbeitet die räumliche Planung auf verschiedener Maßstabsebene. Die räumliche Planung strebt in ihrem Ursprungsgedanken eine interessensabgewogene Raumgestaltung an. Sie versucht, verschiedene Sektoren und Ansprüche an den Raum zu vereinen und die Schutzgüter sowie Ressourcen langfristig zu schützen und zu sichern. [...]
Q57|Policy strategies for a transition to a bioeconomy in Europe: the case of Italy and Germany|Grand societal challenges call for a transition from a society based on finite fossil resources towards a bio-based economy, based on renewable resources. Such a transition should involve not only the energy sector, but also the manufacturing sector. As acknowledged in the European Bioeconomy Strategy, the promotion of a bioeconomy is dependent on policy efforts across a wide spectrum of policy spheres. In the literature on sustainability transitions, this insight is captured in the increasing interest in the concept of policy mixes or policy strategies for promoting transitions to more sustainable modes of production and consumption. In this paper, we present a comparative analysis of bioeconomy strategies in Germany and Italy with a focus on the bioplastics sector. The paper adds to the existing literature on policy mixes by extending the concept of a policy strategy and applying it for the purpose of the comparative analysis. Moreover, the analysis is linked to the discussion on multi-level systems of governance in the European Union. A key finding is that linkages between the two policy strategies via policy making within the European Union have helped in reinforcing the nascent transition to a bio-based economy in Europe.
Q57|Robust modelling of the impacts of climate change on the habitat suitability of forest tree species|In Europe, forests play a strategic multifunctional role, serving economic, social and environmental purposes. However, forests are among the most complex systems and their interaction with the ongoing climate change – and the multifaceted chain of potential cascading consequences for European biodiversity, environment, society and economy – is not yet well understood. The JRC PESETA project series proposes a consistent multi-sectoral assessment of the impacts of climate change in Europe. Within the PESETA II project, a robust methodology is introduced for modelling the habitat suitability of forest tree species (2071-2100 time horizon). Abies alba (the silver fir) is selected as a case study: a main European tree species often distributed in bioclimatically complex areas, spanning over various forest types and with multiple populations adapted to different conditions. The modular modelling architecture is based on relative distance similarity (RDS) estimates which link field observations with bioclimatic patterns, projecting their change under climate scenarios into the expected potential change of suitable habitat for tree species. Robust management of uncertainty is also examined. Both technical and interpretation core aspects are presented in an integrated overview. The semantics of the array of quantities under focus and the uneven sources of uncertainty at the continental scale are discussed (following the semantic array programming paradigm), with an effort to offer some minimal guidance on terminology, meaning and methodological limitations not only of the proposed approach, but also of the broad available literature – whose heterogeneity and partial ambiguity might potentially reverberate at the science-policy interface. ► How to cite: ◄ de Rigo, D., Caudullo, G., San-Miguel-Ayanz, J, Barredo, J.I., 2017. Robust modelling of the impacts of climate change on the habitat suitability of forest tree species. Publication Office of the European Union, Luxembourg. 58 pp. ISBN:978-92-79-66704-6 , https://doi.org/10.2760/296501
Q57|Agricultural impacts of the Great East Japan Earthquake - six years later|On March 11, 2011 the strongest ever recorded in Japan earthquake occurred, also known as the Great East Japan Earthquake, which triggered a powerful tsunami and caused a nuclear accident in one of the world biggest nuclear power stations - Fukushima Daichi. More than six years after the triple disaster the overall impacts on Japanese agri-food chains is far from being completely due to the scale of the disasters and the number of affected agents, the effects’ multiplicities, spillovers, and long time horizon, the constant evolution of the nuclear crisis, the lack of “full” information and models of analysis, etc. This paper presents updates on the impacts of the March 2011 earthquake, tsunami and Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan on country’s agriculture and food sector. First, disaster events and their effects is outlined. Second, impact on farms and agricultural resources is estimated. Third, impact on food industries is assessed. Next, extend of radioactive contamination of agri-food products is presented and effects on markets, consumers and international trade evaluated. Chapter summarises responses of different agents, assesses progress and challenges in post-disaster recovery and reconstruction, and withdraw lessons from the Japanese experiences.
Q57|Cost-effectiveness of buying land for conservation versus paying land-users for conservation measures – the case of preserving an oligotrophic lake in a Natura 2000 area in North Germany|Cost-effective implementation of measures to conserve biodiversity is often a major target of conservation organisations, and choosing the correct mode of governance can be important in this context. Nature conservation organisations can, in principle, choose between two distinct modes of governance to implement conservation activities: they can (1) buy desired areas of interest and implement conservation measures themselves (buy option), or (2) offer payments to landowners to incentivize them to voluntarily preserve or create habitat on their land (compensation option). In this paper we analyse the cost-effectiveness of these two modes of governance in a case study on a conservation project in a Natura 2000 area in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. The actual costs of the buying option are compared with the potential costs of implementing the compensation option. We developed a costing framework to compare the costs of both options over time, given they generate the same ecological results on an identical project area. We find that the cost-effective solution depends, among other things, on the conservation timeframe considered and on cost components such as transaction costs, leasehold rent and land prices.
Q57|Estimating recreational values of coastal zones|The present study tries to improve our understanding of why some people value coastal zone using attitudinal and preference factors in a Contingent Valuation Method (CVM) study. Specifically, it aims at public preferences for improving the quality (protection) of Pagasitikos coastal area in Greece and explores the influence of environmental attitude on preference to people’s willingness to pay (WTP) coastal zone conservation. It also presents the results of a discrete CVM survey which investigates households’ WTP for a set of wetland attributes. The proposed approach uses applied methodological methods like Principal Components and Cluster Analyses together with logistic regression. Various demographic variables (as education and income) together with people’s preferences for coastal zone show a strong impact on WTP and the specific amounts stated. At a second stage people who accept the CVM scenario results and grouped into two segments, with different attitude against coastal zone management and ecological view.
Q57|L’impegno della UE per l’ambiente e il clima: l’esperienza del programma LIFE<BR>[How European Union supports climate action and environmental protection: LIFE programme experience]|European Union addresses environmental and climatic issues through different instruments (research and innovation programs, various categories of structural funds, etc. Among them, LIFE (L'Instrument Financier pour l'Environnement) is the EU’s financial instrument supporting environmental, nature conservation and climate action projects in EU countries. Since 1992, LIFE has co-financed 4306 projects and in 25 years contributed to ensuring environmental protection all over Europe.
Q57|Rural Waste Management Issues at Global Level(Introductory chapter)|This chapter intends to draw attention to solid waste management sector toward rural areas where bad practices and public health threats could be avoided through traditional and integrated waste management routes. The expansion of waste collection services across rural municipalities should be a priority for many countries. Agricultural and municipal waste diversion from wild dumps and open burning practices must be avoided through smart solutions at the local level which are cost-efficient particularly in developing countries. The book further examines, on the one hand, the main challenges in the development of reliable waste management practices across rural regions and, on the other hand, the concrete solutions and the new opportunities across the world in dealing with rural solid waste.
Q57|How Climate Change and Agriculture Fares with Food Security in Pakistan?|In this paper we measure all the components of food security. The objective of the study is to measure the impact of Area under cultivation, Mechanical inputs, and Average Rainfall (mm per year) on food security index. Auto-regressive distributed lagged model (ARDL) is used in both models. In model 1 the data is from 1990-2014 and in model 2 the data is from 1973-2014. On the basis of our analysis we suggest that agricultural factors are significantly affecting the food production in case of Pakistan.
Q57|Sustainability level of Bulgarian agriculture|This paper presents a holistic approach for assessing agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria based on its economic, social and ecological aspects on sectoral macro-level. It is based on official statistical and other information as well as on expert evaluation. Our study has found that the Bulgarian agriculture on macro-level has good sustainability. Some of the sustainability aspects have higher levels (e.g. the economic aspect) while others (social and environmental) are inferior. Study results could help in focusing the political efforts, so that the agrarian sustainability, in its social and ecological aspect, could be increased. However, a further research is needed to evaluate the level of sustainability at micro-level, so that the major issues and problem areas are addressed accordingly.
Q57|Environmental sustainability of Bulgarian agricultural Farms – assessment, state, factors|The issue of assessment of diverse aspects of sustainability of agricultural farms is among the most topical in the last decades. In Bulgaria there are no comprehensive studies on environmental sustainability of farms in general or different types. This article applies a holistic framework for assessing environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms. Initially the multiprinciple, multictiteria and mulriindicator framework for assessing environmental sustainability of farm in the country is outlined. After that a level of environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms is evaluated in general and of farms different juridical type, size, production specialization, and ecological and administrative location. Sustainability assessment is based on a first large-scale survey on environmental aspects of sustainability of agricultural farms in the country carried out in 2016. Third, relations between environmental and socio-economic and integral sustainability of Bulgarian farms are specified. Finally, factors for improving environmental and overall sustainability of agricultural farms in the country are identified. Our study has found out that environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms is at a good level. Nevertheless due to an inferior level of governance and economic sustainability the integral sustainability of Bulgarian farms is lower and the improvement of the latter two is critical for maintaining overall sustainability of Bulgarian farms at current stage of development.
Q57|Exploring social values for marine protected areas: The case of Mediterranean monk seal|This study primarily attempts to understand people’s beliefs towards marine protected areas considering as a case study the National Marine Park of Alonissos, Northern Sporades (NMPANS) in Greece. Specifically, it aims to identify people’s opinion about the utility of the park investigating also their beliefs in relation to socio-economic characteristics. For this reason, a face-to-face survey of 200 respondents randomly selected residents of Volos was carried out. The research was structured according to the principles of the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM). According to the survey results, the majority of responders recognized the contribution of the Park to preserve the monk seal and the natural environment. Moreover, they want to maintain the park and specialise in the area of protection measures.
Q57|Fairness to dairy cows or fairness to farmers: What counts more in the preferences of conventional milk buyers for ethical attributes of milk?|We investigate the willingness-to-pay (WTP) of German conventional milk buyers for ethical attributes of milk production through a choice experiment. Respondents have the highest WTP for animal welfare – free-stall plus summer pasture – followed by biodiversity conservation, support for small, below-average-income farms, and regional milk production. Respondents also have a positive WTP to support all farms but only in combination with regional production. We further find a positive WTP to support small farms in combination with tethering. This implies animal-welfare concerns are somewhat counterbalanced by fairness aspects. Our insights may support developing labels for ethical aspects of milk production.
Q57|Energi baru terbarukan di Indonesia: Isyarat ilmiah al-Qur’an dan implementasinya dalam ekonomi Islam<BR>[Renewable energy policy in Indonesia: Scientific signs of the Qur'an and its implementation in Islamic economics]|This study confirms that renewable energy sources become the solution for energy development in Indonesia due to the increasingly depleted use of fossil-based energy, due to an increase in the population that increases energy consumption and waste in fuel consumption. The Qur'an has provided simple concepts and illustrations about renewable energy sources that can be utilized by humans, energy conservation, and energy enrichment. With the codification and content analysis approach to energy policy in Indonesia and energy themes in the Qur'an, this paper asserts that the Government of Indonesia's renewable energy policy focuses on providing and developing renewable energy as part of sustainable development. This renewable energy policy can be proven scientifically with the implementation of scientific Qur'anic terms about renewable energy sources such as water, geothermal, ocean, vegetation, and wind. The policy on energy conservation through energy saving becomes a religious obligation for every person, institution, and government because to meet the needs of consumers, maintain the survival of the community, and preserve the environment.
Q57|Environment Case Study: Forestry and Water Management in Thailand: A Win Win Situation|The article offers a critique for the argument that forest clearing by the people in the upper areas of the watershed is the main reason for decrease in water supply. Instead he considers increased demand of water for agricultural activity especially during dry season by both upstream and downstream areas as the main cause of water shortage. Thus unlike previous studies, who blame people from upper lands for water shortage, he talks about the fair share of scare resources and rights protection for upstream farmers.
Q57|Analysis of the impact of the use or non-use of neonicotinoids in agriculture|"Neonicotinoids are a class of chemical insecticides derived from nicotine. Like nicotine, neonicotinoids act on certain types of receptors in nerve synapses. They are much more toxic to invertebrates, such as insects, than to mammals and birds. The popularity of neonicotinoids for pest control is their water solubility, which allows them to be applied to the soil and taken over by the plants. The present paper will present, analyse and evaluate the impact of the use of these insecticides in the agriculture of Romania. In the first phase of the study, we will present the overall situation of the main cultures for which these neonicotinoids are used, by qualitative and quantitative analysis of data from local, national, European and international databases. In the second phase the effect and effort of the use or non-use of these insecticides in agriculture will be estimated. Thus, the difference in production will be determined in an untreated and treated one, and we will see the value of the neonicotinoids in production, on the other hand, the less positive effects of the use of these types of insecticides, namely pollution, or what they call some ""ecological disaster"", but also its effect on apiculture and implicitly on bees. This study will be pertinent and objective, without favoring or disfavoring any person or institution in these two areas."
Q57|How transport costs affect the decision to purchase a new or a remanufactured good|Abstract We provide the first strategic analysis of the interaction between a continuum of potentially green consumers and two firms in regional science. Firm 1 (2) sells new (remanufactured) toner cartridges. Each firm selects its price and a consumer purchases from the firm that offers her the highest utility. Utility is given by a surplus measure, the price, and by the transport cost incurred in traveling to a firm’s location. We first derive the best response functions of the two firms. Second, we stipulate a numerical value for the surplus measure and show that when the two firms select their “monopoly” prices, the Nash equilibrium is unique. Third, we specify a linear transport cost function with a constant coefficient and show that the costlier it is for consumers to get to the locations of the two firms, the higher is the price charged by these two firms. Finally, our analysis shows that there is a need to study models in which the two toner cartridges are dissimilar, the interaction between consumers and firms is repeated, and behavioral factors are taken into account.
Q57|Biodiversity Productive Capacity in Mixed Farms of North-West of France: a Multi-output Primal System| Previous studies on the productive value of biodiversity emphasized that crop diversity increases crop yields. Here, we focus on the productivity of crop diversity and permanent grasslands for crops and milk. Using a GMM approach, we estimate detailed production functions using a sample of 3960 mixed farms from the FADN between 2002 and 2013. We highlight that permanent grasslands enhance crop production. We confirm that crop diversity increases crop and milk yields. Permanent grasslands and crop diversity are however substitute inputs. We also find that both of these biodiversity productive capacities influence variable input productivities. These results suggest the potential adaptations of farmers’ choices to environmental measures.
Q57|Maximizing Returns from Payments for Ecosystem Services: Incorporating Externality Effects of Land Management|No abstract is available for this item.
Q57|Norwegian and Romanian green cluster experiences for a digital era|Addressing climate change through the reduction of fossil resources dependency requires the transition from fossil-based industrial production to a bio-based (green) industrial structure. The development of bio-based industry clusters might be part of the solution. This paper introduces the ‘bioeconomy’ concept and the Triple Helix model that are useful when examining the development of green industries clusters in the emerging digital era; the Smart City model might promote new ways to create profitable and sustainable businesses. Examples of good practices and clusters for green industries from Norway are provided and some success stories including Romanian firms are presented.
Q57|Economic Valuation of Forest Ecosystem Services in Kenya: Implication for Design of PES Schemes and Participatory Forest Management|Forest ecosystem services are critical for human well-being as well as functioning and growth of economies. However, despite the growing demand for these services, they are hardly given due consideration in public policy formulation. The values attached to these services by local communities are also generally unknown in developing countries. Using a case study of the Mau forest conservancy the study applied a choice experiment technique employing the efficient design criteria to value salient forest ecosystem services among forest adjacent communities. The values attached to various ecosystem services were estimated using the conditional logit, random parameter logit model and random parameter logit model with interactions. The results revealed high level of preference heterogeneity across households and that communities would prefer conservation programs that would guarantee them improved forest cover, reduced flood risk and high water quality and quantity for drinking but would experience a loss in welfare for choosing an alternative with medium wildlife population. One significant finding from the study is the altruistic nature of forest adjacent communities as revealed by the high willingness to pay for flood mitigation showing that they are not just concerned with the private benefits accruing to them but also the welfare of the society. Overall, we found that there is much appreciation for the role of forest ecosystem services and that forest adjacent communities are more pro conservation mainly motivated by the direct use and non-use values. In terms of policy, the information forms a basis for the design of market based incentives such as PES and the roll out, design and implementation of participatory forest management. Policy makers also need to focus on policy options with higher mean welfare impacts to deepen community involvement in forest conservation while taking into account the heterogeneity in preferences to ensure equity.
Q57|Las bioenergÃ­as en EspaÃ±a. Una serie de producciÃ³n, consumo y stocks entre 1860 y 2010|This paper presents the methodological and statistical basis of a new data series of Spain's bioenergy consumption between 1860 and 2010. We have estimated the primary production, appropriation, and the type of final use of all woody biomass, which represents the most consumed bioenergy. The series distinguishes the production source, including forests, olives, vineyards, and the rest of woody fruit orchards, as well as regional disaggregation at partido judicial level (425 in Spain) between 1860 and 1960. The bioenergy consumption series is represented both in primary (by energy source) and final (by energy carrier) energy. Our findings point out that i) consumption was higher than traditionally assumed in the previous literature; ii) there are four major phases in the period, including a slow decline from 1860 to 1914, a return to firewood with a small increase until 1955, a rapid decline from then to 1980, and finally, a return to bioenergies (with modern uses) from 1980 to the present; iii) there are strong regional disparities in firewood consumption between 1860 and 1960, ranging from 1 to 5 kg hab-1 dÃ­a-1; iv) in the supply of bioenergies, geography also explains the type of product consumed: in Mediterranean provinces, woody crop-based consumption gained prominence, as they expanded over traditional forest areas; and v) stock of woody biomass has multiplied unprecedently since the mid-20th Century due to the abandonment of forestlands, the introduction of fast-growing species, and the optimal geographical allocation.
Q57|Bio-Based Economy Sketch: The Case of Romania|In a world shaken by unsustainability conundrums, a bio-based economy (bioeconomy) seems like the solution. This paper introduces two ways to define a sustainable bioeconomy, one advanced by Nicholas Georgescu Roegen in the 1970s and another implemented by the European Union in recent years. Also, an overview of Romaniaâ€™s potential to develop a bio-based economy is drawn. Its renewable energy profile is presented, followed by a discussion of the bio-based industrial sectors with potential for development.
Q57|Option Fund Market Dynamics for Threshold Public Goods|Abstract Economic agents have the possibility to fund the protection of environmental public goods, such as natural ecosystems and biodiversity, facing unknown risks of collapse, which could help to back them up. On the base of the prediction markets, which meet with a degree of success since their introduction, we propose an evolutionary model of an option fund market for the threshold environmental public goods. We consider population dynamics of agents distributed into proportional fair-share contributors and free riders. The model outcomes show that the public goods could be provided when the agents exchanging option contracts are equally divided into buyers and sellers. This result only holds for a specific social belief over the probability of the public good safeguard, the strict equality between bids and asks, and the equality of all payoffs. Otherwise, providing public goods through option markets turns out to be inoperative.
Q57|Designing markets for biodiversity offsets: lessons from tradable pollution permits|Biodiversity offset markets are one option for managing the trade-offs that exist between conservation targets and the increasing demand on land for urban development and agricultural expansion at local, regional and international scales. Drawing on lessons from the tradable pollution permit market literature, we review the key design parameters for biodiversity offset markets and consider how these have been applied in practice in the U.S., Australia, and the UK. We argue that offset markets should only be applied where the conservation target is a well-defined measure of biodiversity. Efficient offset markets require goods to be simple, measurable units that are fully exchangeable. This allows the market to operate under simple trading rules and engage with the widest number of participants, allowing gains from trade to be realised. We argue that a well-designed and managed offset scheme can be a more cost-effective way of meeting conservation targets than regulation.
Q57|The Allure of the Illegal: Choice Modelling of Rhino Horn Demand in Vietnam|Demand for rhino horn products is the main driver of illegal hunting of African rhinos. Using choice modelling we identify the main drivers of demand and estimate consumer willingness to pay for rhino horn attributes of high policy relevance among Vietnamese users and potential users. We find that wild or semi-wild sourced horn, harvested humanly from least rare species is the most valued among Vietnamese consumers. Furthermore, consumers are willing to pay more for illegally-traded horn, indicating that the international ban on the trade has generated a premium for illegal horn.
Q57|Nudging Participation and Spatial Agglomeration in Payment for Environmental Service Schemes|The environmental benefits from Payment for Environmental Service (PES) schemes can often be enhanced if landowners can be induced to enrol land in a spatially - coordinated manner. This is because the achievement of many targets for biodiversity conservation policy or water quality improvements are increasing in the spatial connectedness of enrolled land. One incentive mechanism which has been proposed by economists to achieve such connectedness is the Agglomeration Bonus (AB). There has also been an interest within the literature on PES design in using “nudges” to enhance participation and scheme performance. This paper explores whether a specific nudge in the form of information provided to participants on the relative environmental performance of their group can improve participation and spatial coordination, and enhance the AB performance. We design a laboratory experiment whereby the environmental benefits generated by a PES scheme are materialized by real contributions to an environmental charity, mirroring the situation in actual PES schemes where participants derive utility from contributing to the environmental outputs of the scheme, in addition to the monetary payoffs they receive. The experimental results confirm positive environmental outcomes derived under an AB, but the impact of the nudge is less environmentally effective. Interestingly, we find that the nudge does not significantly supercharge the AB, and can even worsen its performance
Q57|Buyouts and Agglomeration Bonuses in Wildlife Corridor Auctions|We present a general model of bidding behavior in wildlife corridor auctions. Given (i) some spatial configuration of landowners in a landscape, (ii) the landowners’ opportunity costs, and (iii) the value of establishing the corridor, our model predicts individual landowners’ bids, overall participation rates in the auction, as well as the expected net benefits to the conservation agency. We find that market efficiency of the auction increases in the number of potential corridors. We use simulations to compare a benchmark auction with two policy scenarios in a hypothetical landscape. In one scenario, members of a winning corridor receive an agglomeration bonus. In the other scenario, we buy out a pivotal landowner (one that is part of many potential corridors) prior to the auction. Given equal budgets for the agglomeration bonus and the buyout policy, an agglomeration bonus is less efficient than a buyout for conservation agencies facing low budgets, and vice versa. A risk-averse conservation agency is however always better off using a buyout policy.
Q57|Crowdfunding public goods: An experiment|We assess the impact of different crowdfunding designs on the success of crowdfunded public goods using a lab-in-the-field experiment. Our design treatments aim to increase the efficiency of crowdfunding campaigns by raising aggregate contributions and decreasing possible coordination problems that may occur when potential donors are faced with a multitude of projects seeking contributions. Amongst others, we explore the potential of seed money and the impact of the attraction effect. Using a four-day time window we implement our crowdfunding experiment using a web-based user interface with multiple threshold public goods, similar in style to conventional crowdfunding websites. We find that such alternative crowdfunding designs affect efficiency via improving coordination, and not so much via affecting total contributions. These results are confirmed in a follow-up framed field experiment with actual nature conservation projects.
Q57|How Valuable are National Parks? Evidence from a Proposed National Park Expansion in Alaska|We estimate the national average passive use value for Alaskan National Parks. Passive use refers to the value that individuals get from the existence of a public good without actually using it. We fi eld a questionnaire asking respondents, using the contingent valuation method, how much they would pay for a 5% expansion of Denali National Park. We fi nd that respondents are willing to pay $115 to $409 for this expansion, according our preferred speci cations. Respondents answers to questions about what motivated their support and questions about their connections to Alaska indicate that support for the expansion is driven by passive use values.
Q57|Mapping the linkages between oceans and other Sustainable Development Goals: A preliminary exploration|This paper maps interrelationships among targets of the Sustainable Development Goal dedicated to oceans (SDG 14), as well as interrelationships between those targets and other SDGs. This is done using a large number of UN reports as well as scientific publications. The literature identifies many linkages among the targets of SDG 14; most of these targets are potentially synergistic with one another. Many linkages also exist between SDG 14 targets and other SDGs. Different targets under SDG 14 link to different SDGs. This has implications for policy discussions on how to achieve progress on SDG 14. The interrelationships that we highlight can be used as a tool for dialogue between policy and scientific communities working on oceans, in particular for assessing the status of knowledge on the various linkages, as well as identifying linkages that are likely to matter most for progress on SDG 14.
Q57|Indigenous knowledge for sustainable livelihoods: Lessons from ecological pest control and post-harvest techniques of Baduy (West Java) and Nguni (Southern Africa)|With the impending threat of global climate change, the last decades have witnessed an increasing recognition of the potential contribution of indigenous knowledge to tackling global challenges of environmental sustainability. The sources and wisdom of indigenous knowledge have however much more to contribute to global knowledge, well beyond environment conservation and traditional medicine. This paper uses the examples of swidden cultivation, pest control and rice preservation techniques of the Baduy in West Java (Indonesia) and comparable grain pits utilisation by Nguni tribes in Southern Africa to discuss how indigenous sources of knowledge can be an inspiration for greater social cohesion and sustainable livelihoods. It also draws lessons showing that combining indigenous knowledge systems with modern scientific methods can make it possible to achieve results that neither system can do alone.
Q57|Synergies and Trade-offs in Spatially Targeted Water Quality and Climate Change Mitigation Policies|Climate and water quality are important ecosystem services; but improving these impacts the provisioning service of food production. Using spatially explicit data from a Danish catchment, we uncover the trade-offs and synergies between efficient provision of the three services by multiobjective optimization. Results show that trade-offs exist between the regulating and provisioning services. Furthermore, synergies between the regulating services are significant; however, the cost of provision of one service depends on the level of provision of the other. The policy implication of this result is that significant gains can be achieved from joint implementation of ecosystem service policies.
Q57|The difficult path to a sustainable economic growth|Economic growth since the industrial era has reduced poverty and increased societies’ quality of life, but it also has implied negative environmental effects. There is an urgent need to correct this structural unbalance. The open issue is whether this correction implies sacrificing the perspective of economic growth or if it can be achieved by maintaining economic growth though changing its nature in a more environment oriented direction. In the following I argue that this second strategy is preferable and also more realistic, but it requires an appropriate combination of conditions and policies to be implemented. Environmental regulation, particularly through the use of appropriate price signals correcting negative environmental externalities, is necessary, but not sufficient to promote the required radical environment oriented innovations, particularly to build a low-carbon economy less and less dependent on fossil fuels. Environment oriented innovation policies are required, supported by a system of social norms and by a polycentric system of governance.
Q57|The Organizing Framework of Ecosystem Services and its use in River Management|An Ecosystem Services approach can be used as an organizing framework to enhance the management of ecosystems, as multiple values and trade-offs can be identified and communicated through an ecosystem services lens. This can support more systemic, rather than incremental, planning, decision-making, and longer term value propositions. As rivers and their catchments/watersheds (RCW) are the lifeblood of many ecosystems, ecosystem services must adequately be taken into account in RCW planning, decision-making, and management to sustain and/or enhance this important natural capital. In this literature review, we discuss if/how an ecosystem services lens has been applied in the peer reviewed literature in the context of RCW management. Overall, the results reveal continual increases worldwide in the popularity and importance of considering ecosystem services in terms of RCW. Our findings also reveal that most of these studies have focussed on the themes of modelling, valuation, and/or mapping, but have not necessarily comprehensively used all three. We conclude that there is room for an ecosystem services approach to reach its full potential as an organizing framework, in particular across regions/countries and at multiple levels of scale.
Q57|Are Bilateral Conservation Policies for the Białowieża Forest Unattainable? Analysis of Stated Preferences of Polish and Belarusian Public|Transboundary nature protected areas constitute a considerable proportion of all the existing spatial forms of biodiversity protection. There is a considerable literature on allocation of funds to preserving nature shared by several countries, though less research on the economic benefits that citizens attach to protected transboundary land nature on the other side of the border. We are trying to find out and compare preferences towards increased protection of domestic and foreign segments of the Białowieża Forest, stated by samples of Polish and Belarusian citizens. Whilst Poles on average are willing to pay for an increased passive protection, on their side of the border, most Belarusians seem to be satisfied with the status quo. There is even an apparent mutual disutility derived from the perspective of co-financing bilateral passive protection programmes in the Białowieża Forest. The results can to some extent be explained by a strict border division, by differences in welfare or by behavioural reasons.
Q57|Is Forest Landscape Restoration Socially Desirable? A Discrete Choice Experiment Applied to the Scandinavian Transboundary Fulufjället National Park Area|Landscape restoration can improve functionality of land cover patches as green infrastructure, which is essential to ensure the provision of a diverse range of ecosystem services. However, so far designation of protected areas in Fennoscandia has focused primarily on remnant patches of naturally dynamic forests, and not on landscape level restoration. We applied stated preference methodology to assess citizens’ preferences for forest landscape restoration in a cross-border region primarily managed for the industrial forestry, and – at the same time – hosting the transboundary Fulufjället National Park, shared between Sweden and Norway. There is scope for improving green infrastructure functionality by landscape restoration in adjacent forest areas, and including them into the National Park, which aims at gradual restoration of natural processes. In both countries, 54% and 55% choices made, respectively, indicated willingness to pay for extending the National Park by some area of forest landscape restoration.
Q57|The problem of non-optimal management of urban green areas in Warsaw|"In his paper the author looks at management of urban green areas in Warsaw as a principal agent problem. In the study the principal is the City Mayor, while the agent is institution responsible for managing street trees in Warsaw (ZOM). While the City Mayor is interested in enhancing the welfare of their constituency, the lower level officers do not have to be preoccupied with the same concerns - they are interested in maximizing their utility subject to some constraints imposed by their bosses. This is a standard hierarchical agency theory model. As the agent’s contract is not incentive compatible, the theoretical ""residual claimancy"" condition does not hold, and the species composition is different from what it would have been if the principal-agent model implemented was incentive compatible."
Q57|Directed Technological Change in a Post-Keynesian Ecological Macromodel|This paper presents a post-Keynesian ecological macromodel, which is stock-flow consistent, and incorporates directed technological change. Private and public R&D spending across three competing, yet complementary inputs – Labor, Capital, and Resources – follow a portfolio allocation decision, where inputs with relatively higher growth in costs, see higher R&D investment and productivity gains. Two policy experiments are reported; a market-based Resource tax increase, and a centralized green policy, where public R&D budget is shifted towards Resource-saving technologies. We highlight that in the presence of labor market institutions, which give rise to hysteresis, and limited R&D budgets, a policy of continuous Resource tax growth is needed to induce Resource-saving technological change to achieve a greener economy. This needs to be coupled with planned government spending adjustment to spur demand and boost investment. The findings also suggest that a mix of market-based and centralized policies may be optimal.
Q57|Economic inequality and the value of nature|Understanding what influences the value of nature is crucial for informing environmental policy. From a sustainability perspective, economic valuation should not only seek to determine willingness to pay for environmental goods to devise an efficient allocation of scarce resources, but should also account for distributional effects to ensure justice. Yet, how economic inequality affects the value of non-market environmental goods remains understudied. Combining recently developed theoretical results with empirical evidence we show that more equal societies have a higher valuation for environmental public goods and that non-market benefits of environmental policy accrue over-proportionally to poorer households. On this ground, we identify a number of fruitful areas for future research and discuss implications for environmental valuation, management and policy-making. We conclude that environmental valuation should explicitly account for economic inequality, and that encompassing assessments of the distributional effects of environmental policies must consider the distribution of non-market environmental benefits.
Q57|F.R.A.N.Z.-Studie: Hindernisse und Perspektiven für mehr Biodiversität in der Agrarlandschaft|Zu Beginn des Demonstrations- und Dialogprojekts 'F.R.A.N.Z. - Für Ressourcen, Naturschutz und Landwirtschaft mit Zukunft' wurden 2017 bundesweit Landwirte und Berater zur Umsetzung von Biodiversitätsmaßnahmen in landwirtschaftlichen Betrieben in Deutschland befragt. In 44 leitfadengestützten Interviews und drei Gruppendiskussionen berichteten die Befragten über aktuelle Hemmnisse und Verbesserungsmöglichkeiten in der landwirtschaftlichen Praxis. Im Fokus standen Agrarumwelt- und Klimamaßnahmen und weitere regionale Programme. Neben den agrarpolitischen Rahmenbedingungen und konkreten Erfahrungen mit Maßnahmen wurden betriebswirtschaftliche, produktionstechnische und administrative Aspekte angesprochen. Auch die Vereinbarkeit mit den Wertvorstellungen Dritter sowie die konkrete Beratungsleistung kamen zur Sprache. Der Fragebogen bestand überwiegend aus halboffenen und offenen Fragen, die dazu dienten herauszufinden, welche Gründe aus Sicht des Betriebsleiters ausschlaggebend bei der Entscheidung für oder gegen die Umsetzung von Biodiversitätsmaßnahmen sind. Folgende Kernaussagen lassen sich aus den Antworten ableiten: - Die Wirtschaftlichkeit des Betriebs darf nicht beeinträchtigt werden. - Die Sicherheit über den Fortbestand der Programme in der bestehenden Form sowie die Sicherheit bezüglich der Kenntnis von Auflagen werden als unzureichend angesehen. - Die Notwendigkeit von Sanktionen wird anerkannt, es herrscht jedoch große Angst vor Anlastungen bei unbewussten/nicht zu verhindernden Verstößen (z. B. witterungsbedingt). - Mehr Flexibilität bei Bearbeitungsterminen, Abmessungen und der generellen Ausgestaltung der Maßnahmen ist eine zentrale Forderung der Befragten. - Ein wichtiges Anliegen aller Beteiligten ist es, die Ziele und Erfolge der Maßnahmen verstärkt durch Beratung und Öffentlichkeitsarbeit zu kommunizieren. - Die Verbesserung des Images des eigenen Betriebs und der Landwirtschaft allgemein stellt ein wichtiges Motiv der Befragten für die Umsetzung von Maßnahmen dar. Die Befragung hat gezeigt, dass sowohl harte Faktoren wie die Wirtschaftlichkeit als auch weiche Faktoren wie das Image über die Umsetzung von Maßnahmen entscheiden. Um eine bessere Akzeptanz zu erreichen, müssten die Maßnahmen flexibler an regionale Ansprüche angepasst werden. Ebenso gilt es, die Kommunikation innerhalb der Landwirtschaft, aber auch nach außen in Richtung Gesellschaft/Bevölkerung zu intensivieren.
Q57|Gesellschaftliche Lernprozesse zur Förderung der Bioökonomie - eine ordonomische Argumentationsskizze|Vor welchen Herausforderungen steht das Projekt der Bioökonomie, wenn man aus einer ordonomischen Perspektive auf das Phänomen eines demokratischen Diskursversagens blickt? Zwei Arten des Diskursversagens sind zu unterscheiden: (a) der Fehl-Alarm und (b) der Fehlende Alarm. Gerade im Hinblick auf bioökonomische Neuerungen müssen wir Governance-Strukturen entwickeln, um uns kollektiv in die Lage zu versetzen, das Falsche zu unterlassen und das Richtige zu tun. Nicht nur technische Innovationen, sondern auch institutionelle und ideative Innovationen sind für den nachhaltigen Erfolg (und die soziale Akzeptanz) der Bioökonomie von entscheidender Bedeutung.
Q57|Decentralization effects in ecological fiscal transfers: The case of Portugal|Portugal has a unitary system in which the central government transfers funds to lower government levels for their public functions. In 2007, Portugal introduced Ecological Fiscal Transfers (EFT), where municipalities receive transfers for hosting Protected Areas (PA). We study whether introducing EFT in Portugal incentivized municipalities to designate PA and has led to a decentralization of conservation decisions. We employ a Bayesian structural time series approach to estimate the effect of introducing EFT in comparison to a simulated counterfactual time series. Quantitative results show a significant increase in the ratio of municipal and national PA designations following Portugal's EFT introduction. The analysis furthermore places emphasis on the importance of relevant municipal conservation competencies and the role of local decision makers' motivations for PA designations. Results have important implications for conservation policy-making in terms of allocating budgets and competencies in multi-level governments.
Q57|Amenity demand and species diversity across Indian zoos|We assess the extent to which Indian zoo managers develop their collections based upon the demand for zoos as amenities. We hypothesis that the within-zoo (alpha) species diversity and the percentages of species collected that are native and are at conservation risk are affected by the population and wealth within the metro area. We use data on 30 Indian zoos from the Central Zoo Authority for 2011-2012, the 2011 Indian census, and the IUCN Red List to develop our SUR regression model. Our analysis of the regression results leads us to four conclusions. Although, first, we find that our measures of amenity do not affect any of the three dependent variables we do find, second, that population and wealth appear to have opposite affects. Increasing population (wealth) marginally increases (decreases) within-zoo species diversity and marginally decreases (increases) both the percentage of native species and the percentage of at-risk species in zoo collections. Third, the choice of the diversity index matters; using Species Richness appears to lead to the strongest statistical significance in the regression equations while using Simpson’s Index leads to the weakest significance. Finally, as zoo managers differentiate their collections, increase the between-zoo (beta) species diversity of the collections, they tend to increase the percentages of native species and at-risk species in their zoos’ collections.
Q57|Optimal recycling under heterogeneous waste sources and the environmental Kuznets curve|We investigate how the relationship between economic growth and pollution is affected by the source of pollution: production or consumption. We are interested in polluting waste that cannot be naturally absorbed, but for which recycling efforts aim to avoid massive pollution accumulation with harmful consequences in the long run. We distinguish the cases where recycling efforts are capital-improving or capital-neutral. Based on both environmental and social welfare perspectives, we determine how the interaction between growth and polluting waste accumulation is affected by the source of pollution, i.e., either consumption or production, and by the fact that recycling may or may not act as an income generator, i.e., either capital-improving or capital-neutral recycling efforts. Several new results are extracted regarding optimal recycling policy and the Environmental Kuznets Curve. Beside the latter concern, we show both analytically and numerically that the optimal control of waste through recycling allows to reaching larger (resp., lower) consumption and capital stock levels under consumption-based waste compared to production-based waste while the latter permits to reach lower stocks of waste through lower recycling efforts.
Q57|Technological Changes as the Development Factor of the Global and Russian Energy Sector|This article aims to study the real and hidden technological changes that will shape the strategic contours of the world energy civilization development, as well as the development of the Russian energy sector. The paper presents the following main conclusions: (i) Global energy development and nation states energy sector development are determined by a set of issues, foremost of which is innovation and technological aspect that determines the local and global changes that are likely to lead to the formation of a new energy civilization; (ii) New energy civilization is established by concepts of “green economy” and “smart energy.” In the new energy civilization for a sufficiently long period, the level of primary fossil energy resources consumption will be reduced, and the consumption of energy derived from renewable energy sources will be increased; (iii) The prospect of long-term and distant future now requires a reorientation of national energy sectors from resource-intensive and resource-dependent development type to resource-efficient and resource-tech development type. For the Russian energy sector, which is one of the problematic areas of the national economy, the local and systemic solutions are offered that reduce the level of its energy intensity and improve its energy efficiency.
Q57|A stock-flow-fund ecological macroeconomic model|This paper develops a stock-flow-fund ecological macroeconomic model that combines the stock-flow consistent approach of Godley and Lavoie with the flow-fund model of Georgescu-Roegen. The model has the following key features. First, monetary and physical stocks and flows are explicitly formalised taking into account the accounting principles and the laws of thermodynamics. Second, Georgescu-Roegen's distinction between stock-flow and fund-service resources is adopted. Third, output is demand-determined but supply constraints might arise either due to environmental damages or due to the exhaustion of natural resources. Fourth, climate change influences directly the components of aggregate demand. Fifth, finance affects macroeconomic activity and the materialisation of investment plans that determine ecological efficiency. The model is calibrated using global data. Simulations are conducted to investigate the trajectories of key environmental, macroeconomic and financial variables under (i) different assumptions about the sensitivity of economic activity to the leverage ratio of firms and (ii) different types of green finance policies.
Q57|Modeling the marginal value of rainforest losses: A dynamic value function approach|The economic value of a rainforest is modeled as a dynamic asset subject to fire risk and potential increase in dryness. I solve two Bellman equations, for unburnt and for already burnt forest, to derive analytically tractable expressions for the total expected, spatially differentiated, asset value of the forest in each state assuming constant growth and forest loss rates over time. I derive the marginal expected discounted value loss when losing a small additional piece of forest, at any alternative site in the forest. Marginal forest value is found to increase when the risk of forest fire increases due to forest fragmentation when forest is lost locally; and also when forest dryness, affecting forest values negatively, increases upon forest fragmentation. Both forest fire risk and dryness serve as “multipliers” on the basic services return loss, both within and outside of the forest. Increased forest fire risk is found to reduce average rainforest value by reducing their future expected lifespans and current returns; but to increase marginal forest value by making primary forest loss avoidance more valuable. I calibrate the model including the impact of the forest fire risk component on forest value, with multipliers in a typical range 1.3–1.5.
Q57|Structured pluralism in ecological economics — A reply to Peter Söderbaum's commentary|Peter Söderbaum argues in his commentary, concerning my article on sustainability economics (Remig 2015), for more open and radical ecological economics. I agree with that statement. However, I reject Söderbaum's interpretation that my arguments foster mainstreamed ecological economics or dictatorship. In my critique of sustainability economics, I raised several issues that have remained unspecified and that potentially lead to unsustainable development patterns, once put into practice. Söderbaum does not reply to these conceptual challenges of sustainability economics. In this commentary, I argue that “structured pluralism” (Dow, 2004) is a constituent element of ecological economics. I welcome Peter Söderbaum's proposal for a discussion about the definition of economics and suggest to rely on Ronald Coase's proposal to define economics as a science that studies the working of the economic system. I conclude that sustainability economics in its current form is closer to neoclassical than ecological economics.
Q57|Temporal stability of stated preferences for endangered species protection from choice experiments|Benefit transfer methods rely on past models and results, so it is important to know whether economic values are stable over time or are subject to change, either because of the reliability of the methodology or due to actual preference changes. The temporal stability of willingness to pay (WTP) has been tested extensively for contingent valuation, but rarely for stated preference choice experiments (CE). We use data from two identical CE surveys on different samples from the same population that occurred 17months apart (Spring 2009 and Fall 2010) to estimate and compare mean WTP and preference parameters associated with threatened and endangered marine species protection. Our models account for both preference and scale heterogeneity, and the results suggest both types of heterogeneity matter. Tests of preference stability suggest stable preferences between 2009 and 2010. Furthermore, WTP values estimated from both surveys are not statistically different. This provides evidence that economic values estimated using CE methods are temporally stable.
Q57|Caloric unequal exchange in Latin America and the Caribbean|The existence of an unequal exchange between rich and poor countries has been well studied in the literature, explained by differences in labour costs that were reflected in the prices of traded goods. Research has also demonstrated that the failure to include environmental impacts in prices of traded goods concealed an ecologically unequal exchange. This paper contributes to the discussion with the newly coined concept of caloric unequal exchange that defines the deterioration of terms of trade in food in units of calories. Exports and imports to and from Latin America and the Caribbean are analysed for the period 1961 through 2011 in volume, value, and calories, for different groups of products. The study concludes that although calories exported by the region to the rest of the world are more expensive than those imported, the ratio is deteriorating over time. This trend is found to be dependent of the trading partner involved. The region is helping the rest of the world in supplying their diets at a lower cost. A side result is that globalisation is homogenising diets over time, concentrating most food consumption in a reduced number of products, and therefore increasing interdependency among countries and affecting food security.
Q57|Invasive Species Impacts on Human Well-being Using the Life Satisfaction Index|Invasive alien species are known to be disruptive to the natural environment and can lead to sharp reductions in environmental quality, thereby affecting social welfare. However, little is known about how subjective well-being, in particular, is impacted by invasive species. This is troubling because it precludes credible empirical considerations of the full-range of social externalities when setting invasive species management policy. To address this knowledge gap, this paper provides the first estimates of invasive species impacts on subjective well-being using the life satisfaction (“happiness”) index. The approach is applied to the invasive emerald ash borer (EAB), a particularly virulent ash tree attacking pest in North America. Using a repeated cross-sectional fixed effects design, the impact of EAB detection on life satisfaction (LS) is estimated for individuals living in 189 counties in 15 US states over 2005–2011. Results suggest that after EAB detection, LS is reduced by 0.127 on a 4-point scale [95% CI: −0.002, −0.252]. The magnitude of impacts are greatest after a 5-year lag and are largest among young adults (18–24years).
Q57|Crop Production and Crop Diversity in France: A Spatial Analysis|This paper aims to provide empirical evidence of the effect of crop diversity on crop production and spillover effect. Based on the estimation of production functions with spatial concerns on an original and rich dataset, results of the study suggest that crop diversity has a positive and significant effect on crop production. Its marginal contribution is substantial when rainfall is low in the agroecosystem. Furthermore, spatial dependence is a major issue and could be explained by topographic, climatic and agronomic constraints.
Q57|The State-contingent Approach to the Noah's Ark Problem|Biodiversity outcomes arising from conservation programs depend on the future state of nature, yet standard economic models of biodiversity conservation are not state contingent. We develop a state-contingent approach to the Noah's Ark problem – the problem of efficiently allocating limited funds to conserve biodiversity – and model conservation actions under uncertainty. Under the state-contingent approach, Noah will prepare for unfavorable and unexpected states of nature ex ante rather than relieving suffering ex post. Different species will be chosen for the Ark and particularly species that underpin the foundations of ecosystems. More generally, the state-contingent ranking equation justifies conservation policy that treats the cause rather than the symptom of biodiversity loss, and recommends strategies that focus on ecosystem resilience and integrity. In comparison to the standard model, the state-contingent approach leads to a more detailed and explicit allocation of resources. (JEL: Q54, Q57, Q58).
Q57|Payment for multiple forest benefits alters the effect of tree disease on optimal forest rotation length|Forests deliver multiple benefits both to their owners and to wider society. However, a wave of forest pests and pathogens is threatening this worldwide. In this paper we examine the effect of disease on the optimal rotation length of a single-aged, single rotation forest when a payment for non-timber benefits, which is offered to private forest owners to partly internalise the social values of forest management, is included. Using a generalisable bioeconomic framework we show how this payment counteracts the negative economic effect of disease by increasing the optimal rotation length, and under some restrictive conditions, even makes it optimal to never harvest the forest. The analysis shows a range of complex interactions between factors including the rate of spread of infection and the impact of disease on the value of harvested timber and non-timber benefits. A key result is that the effect of disease on the optimal rotation length is dependent on whether the disease affects the timber benefit only compared to when it affects both timber and non-timber benefits. Our framework can be extended to incorporate multiple ecosystem services delivered by forests and details of how disease can affect their production, thus facilitating a wide range of applications.
Q57|Modeling the Property Price Impact of Water Quality in 14 Chesapeake Bay Counties|The Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries provide a range of recreational and aesthetic amenities, such as swimming, fishing, boating, wildlife viewing, and scenic vistas. Living in close proximity to the Bay improves access to these amenities and should be capitalized into local housing markets. We investigate these impacts in the largest hedonic analysis of water quality ever completed, with over 200,000 property sales across 14 Maryland counties. We use a spatially explicit water quality dataset, along with a wealth of landscape, economic, geographic, and demographic variables. These data allow a comprehensive exploration of the value of water quality, while controlling for a multitude of other influences. We also estimate several variants of the models most popular in current literature, with a focus on the temporal average of water quality. In comparing 1year and 3year averages, the 3year averages generally have a larger implicit price. Overall, results indicate that water quality improvements in the Bay, such as those required by EPA's Total Maximum Daily Load, could yield significant benefits to waterfront and near-waterfront homeowners.
Q57|Bloom and bust: Toxic algae's impact on nearby property values|Over the past decade harmful algal blooms (HABs) have become a nationwide environmental concern. HABs are likely to increase in frequency and intensity due to rising summer temperatures caused by climate change and higher nutrient enrichment from increased urbanization. Policymakers need information on the economic costs of HABs to design optimal management policies in the face of limited budgets. Using a detailed, multi-lake hedonic analysis across 6 Ohio counties between 2009 and 2015 we show capitalization losses associated with near lake homes between 11% and 17% rising to above 22% for lake adjacent homes. In the case of Grand Lake Saint Marys, we find one-time capitalization losses exceeding $51 million for near lake homes which dwarfs the State of Ohio's cleanup expenditure of $26 million.
Q57|Payment Vs. Compensation For Ecosystem Services: Do Words Have A Voice In The Design of Environmental Conservation Programs?|We examine whether and how word choice can affect individual perceptions about a proposed Payments for Ecosystem Services (PES) program when objective outcomes are similar. From a traditional economic perspective, this type of manipulation would be considered unlikely to affect perceptions and behaviour, especially in the presence of pecuniary incentives and repeated decisions among sophisticated agents. From a behaviourally informed perspective, however, psychological and political theories of wording argue that word choice can have a significant impact on economic behaviour. To substantiate this discussion, we conduct a survey experiment that tests the impact of the words ‘payment’ and ‘compensation’ on favorability ratings of a proposed PES program. These preliminary findings suggest that the words used to describe public policies can be influential non-pecuniary interventions.
Q57|Addressing Contextual and Location Biases in the Assessment of Protected Areas Effectiveness on Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazônia|Using a remotely sensed pixel data set, we develop a multilevel model and propensity score weighting with multilevel data to assess the impact of protected areas on deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. These techniques allow taking into account location bias, contextual bias and the dependence of spatial units. Our results show that the hierarchical structure of the database matters and should be considered in the assessment of protected areas effectiveness. Our results also suggest that protected areas have slowed down deforestation between 2005 and 2009, whatever the type of governance. The effectiveness of protected areas differs according to socioeconomic and environmental variables measured at municipal level. For instance, indigenous protected areas are found to be marginally more efficient than sustainable use areas and integral use areas. Protected Areas that were more recently implemented are also found to avoid more deforestation than older ones. This corroborates the idea that recently created protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon have a greater agricultural potential.
Q57|Optimal Versus Sustainable Degrowth Policies|This paper introduces a natural resource and pollution in a Ramsey growth model which relies on the postulates of ecological economics. It studies the impact of voluntary degrowth policies on production and welfare. The instrument of these policies is a tax on the natural resource. These public policies are implemented after the downturn of the households' welfare following from the increased pollution.
Q57|Global Climate Policy Will Have Net Benefits Larger Than Anyone Thinks (and Welfare Gains, Strangely, Are Likely To Be Much Larger Yet)|As with other public goods lacking strong special interest support, global climate policy suffers from two serious theoretical flaws. The first is failure to endogenize the labor-leisure decision when conducting benefit-cost analysis. Recognition that income generated will not remain the same pre-and-post policy results in downward bias in benefit estimation. Much more importantly, there will generally be free riding in input markets in addition to the well-known output demand revelation problem. Since even households with very high marginal values cannot individually increment public goods, too little income will be generated and too much of the income that is generated will be spent on relatively low value ordinary private goods. The ungenerated income would have all been spent on the public good, apart from general equilibrium considerations, resulting in additional—and perhaps large—downward bias in benefits of global climate policy. The reallocation of spending from relatively low value private goods to higher value public goods may further greatly increase willingness-to-pay for policies stabilizing global climate.
Q57|Low natural gas prices and the financial cost of ramp rate restrictions at hydroelectric dams|Peaking hydroelectric dams that employ variable, stop-start reservoir releases can have adverse impacts on downstream river ecosystems. Efforts to mitigate these impacts have relied predominantly on the use of ramp rate restrictions, which limit the magnitude of hour-to-hour changes in reservoir discharge. Ramp rate restrictions shift hydropower production towards less valuable off-peak hours, imposing a financial penalty on dam owners that is a function of the “spread” (difference) between peak and off-peak electricity prices. This study examines how low natural gas prices in the U.S. have reduced the cost of implementing ramp rate restrictions at dams by narrowing the peak/off-peak price spread. Significantly lower costs of ramp rate restrictions could open new opportunities for improving environmental flows at dams, including the “purchase” of more natural streamflow patterns by downstream stakeholders, a type of arrangement for which there is growing precedent. We also explore the role that uncertainty in the cost of ramp rate restrictions could play in precluding downstream stakeholders from forming these types of agreements with dam owners. Results suggest that financial “collar” contracts could mostly eliminate inter-annual variability in the net cost of restrictions and provide those purchasing more natural flows with greater certainty.
Q57|What drives carbon dioxide emissions in the long-run? Evidence from selected South Asian Countries|This study empirically investigates the relationship between CO2 emission and four of its potentially contributing factors (i.e., energy consumption, income, trade openness and population) using time series data from 1971 to 2013 on five selected economies of South Asia. After confirming that all the series are stationary using unit root test process, the study incorporates three different and advance panel cointegration tests i.e. Pedroni- Kao- and Johansen-Fisher-panel cointegration. All the panel cointegration tests confirm that all the variables cointegrated. The long-run association between the variables is checked using FMOLS-grouped and individual cross-section country in the panel. The FMOLS grouped results show that energy consumption, trade openness and population increases environmental degradation in the panel countries with exception of income which has negative impact and sounds the existence of Environmental Kuznet curve between income and emission. The innovative accounting approach using variance decomposition test and impulse response function is applied to examine the causality amongst the underlined vectors. The results show that there is bidirectional causality between energy consumption and trade openness and uni-directional causality running from energy consumption, trade openness and population to CO2 emission. The results enumerate that the energy consumption and population density will increase in long-run and foresee further environmental degradation in the region.
Q57|On environmental impacts of market-based reforms: Evidence from the European and Central Asian transition economies|Global warming and other adverse climate change impacts induced by anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions are a major public policy concern around the world including transitional economies. This paper, therefore, examines the impacts of market-based economic reforms on per capita CO2 emissions in the European and Central Asian transition economies where environmental degradation was pervasive prior to these reforms. A dynamic panel data model is employed for this purpose for 28 countries covering 22 years from 1990 to 2012. Our overall results suggest that economic openness may not necessarily result in sustainable development although reforms in competition policy and corporate governance were the significant drivers of emissions reductions in the region. Hence, advances in competition policy and governance reforms are desirable given the available scope to extend these reforms. The structural shift to and emergence of light industries also contributed to declining CO2 emissions in the transition process. The direct impact of the Kyoto Protocol in reducing emissions is debatable which also raises doubts on the effectiveness of the Paris agreements.
Q57|Identifying the impacts of critical habitat designation on land cover change|The US Endangered Species Act (ESA) regulates what landowners, land managers, and industry can do on lands occupied by listed species. The ESA does this in part by requiring the designation of habitat within each listed species’ range considered critical to their recovery. Critics have argued that critical habitat (CH) designation creates significant economic costs while contributing little to species recovery. Here we examine the effects of CH designation on land cover change. We find that the rate of change from 1992 to 2011 in developed (urban and residential) and agricultural land in CH areas was not significantly different compared to similar lands without CH designation, but still subject to ESA regulations. Although CH designation on average does not affect overall rates of land cover change, CH designation did slightly modify the impact of land cover change drivers. Generally, variation in land prices played a larger role in land cover decisions within CH areas than in similar areas without CH designation. These trends suggest that developers may require a greater than typical expected return to development in CH areas to compensate for the higher risk of regulatory scrutiny. Ultimately, our results bring into question the very rationale for the CH regulation. If it is for the most part not affecting land cover choices, is CH helping species recover?
Q57|A cost-benefit approach for prioritizing invasive species|Biological invasions entail massive biodiversity losses and tremendous economic impacts that justify significant management efforts. Because the funds available to control biological invasions are limited, there is a need to identify priority species. This paper first reviews current invasive species prioritization methods and explicitly highlights their pitfalls. We then construct a cost-benefit optimization framework that incorporates species utility, ecological value, distinctiveness, and species interactions. This framework offers the theoretical foundations of a simple method for the management of multiple invasive species under a limited budget. We provide an algorithm to operationalize this framework and render explicit the assumptions required to satisfy the management objective.
Q57|Do public works programs crowd-out pro-environmental behavior? Empirical evidence from food-for-work programs in Ethiopia|The Ethiopian food for work program typically induces forest conservation work. While economic outcomes have been studied before, little is known about the program’s environmental impact. We run a choice experiment among Ethiopian farmers eliciting preferences in a hypothetical afforestation program that mimics the Ethiopian food-for-work program. We find that introducing food incentives decreases willingness to participate in the program and participation rate increases with an increase in the proportion of individuals selected for food incentive. We also find that the crowding-out effect is stronger when food incentive recipients are selected based on income compared to lottery-based selection. Our data points to pro-social signaling as the most likely channel for the crowding-out effect. These results suggest that (1) food-for-work programs could have unintended negative environmental effects and (2) directions for design reform that could mitigate this.
Q57|Valeurs carbone implicites des contributions nationales et trajectoires 2°C|Ce document de travail analyse le degré d'effort nécessaire à l'atteinte des objectifs INDC des 13 pays du Deep Decarbonization Pathway Project. L'objectif est d'évaluer et de comparer les degrés d'effort requis pour atteindre les objectifs INDC, entre les pays, d'une part et, d'autre part, au regard de trajectoires de plus long terme (2050) s'inscrivant dans l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C. Une méthodologie est mise en place pour transcrire les INDC en niveaux d'émissions de CO2 nettes du LULUCF. Le modèle POLES est ensuite utilisé pour révéler la valeur carbone implicite des INDC et permettre une comparabilité des objectifs nationaux entre eux. Enfin, la création d'un scénario INDCext permet d'appréhender les INDC au regard d'objectifs nationaux de plus long terme (2050) compatibles avec l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C.
Q57|Climate Change, Financial Stability and Monetary Policy|Using a stock-flow-fund ecological macroeconomic model, we analyse (i) the effects of climate change on financial stability and (ii) the financial and global warming implications of a green quantitative easing (QE) programme. Emphasis is placed on the impact of climate change damages on the price of financial assets and the financial position of firms and banks. The model is estimated and calibrated using global data and simulations are conducted for the period 2016–2120. Four key results arise. First, by destroying the capital of firms and reducing their profitability, climate change is likely to gradually deteriorate the liquidity of firms, leading to a higher rate of default that could harm both the financial and the non-financial corporate sector. Second, climate change damages can lead to a portfolio reallocation that can cause a gradual decline in the price of corporate bonds. Third, climate-induced financial instability might adversely affect credit expansion, exacerbating the negative impact of climate change on economic activity. Fourth, the implementation of a green corporate QE programme can reduce climate-induced financial instability and restrict global warming. The effectiveness of this programme depends positively on the responsiveness of green investment to changes in bond yields.
Q57|A bio-economic analysis for land-uses and biodiversity in metropolitan France|Dealing with the erosion of terrestrial biodiversity has become of key importance in order to ensure ecosystems sustainability. Agricultural and forestry activities are one major anthropogenic driver of this decline. The underlying land-use changes result in the alteration of species habitats. Current agricultural and forestry public policies exhibit drawbacks in terms of biodiversity conservation. Reconciling economic and ecological objectives of such public policies thus remains an ongoing critical challenge. In that respect, this paper presents the impacts of contrasted public policy scenarios within a dynamic and spatialized bio-economic framework applied to metropolitan France. We assessed ecological performances through 5 indicators accounting for various structural and functional components of the biodiversity while economic performances refer to land-use incomes. We demonstrate that long-term synergies between ecological and economic performances can emerge, especially within extensive-farming scenarios. Our results underline the necessary adaptation of land-use public policies by taking into account the biodiversity component being supported. We advocate the use of biodiversity indicators into the public decision-making process.
Q57|Development Strategies to Improve the Ecotourism of Indigenous Villages|"""Objective – The aim on which this study conducted is to identify the interaction of indigenous factors and external factors at a Tourism Village Nongkosawit and then to create right strategy to develop the tourist village. Methodology/Technique – This descriptive quantitative research approach focuses on actual problems or phenomena of Nongkosawit which are described based on under-investigation facts and are then rationally and accurately interpreted. Data based on field surveys and questionnaires were evaluated with SWOT analysis (Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, Threat). Findings – The obtained SWOT results shows that, total score of 3.26 in IFE matrix and 3.00 in the EFE matrix indicate that the appropriate strategy to development a Nongkosawit tourism village is turnaround strategy which means internal problems in this village must be minimized to seize the market opportunities. Then rehabilitating infrastructural facilities, including hotels, restaurants and local tourist guides, and taking advantage of diversity of the ecosystem. Novelty – The study suggests that village tourism should make improvements on the internal side by performing management reconstruction and perform sharpening market segments. Stakeholders and communities must work together to support the development of rural tourism to raise the regional economy."""
Q57|Green Practices in Northern Region Hotels of Malaysia|"""Objective – The objective of this paper is to examine green practices of hotels located in Northern region of Malaysia. Methodology/Technique – The sample of the study is 115 hotels in Penang, Kedah and Perlis. Questionnaires were personally delivered to each respective hotel. The response rate for the survey is 43%. Findings – Findings from the survey indicate that hoteliers have started to show a positive sign towards adoption of green practices such as usage of power saving bulbs, water conservation, and recycling management program. Novelty – The study urges more campaigns on awareness and the benefits of green practices. And, it will indirectly educate the hoteliers and society at large on the importance of saving the Mother Nature. """
Q57|Green Purchase Behavior: The Role of Religiosity, Environmental Attitude, and Environmental Knowledge|"""Objective – This study attempts to determine the effect of religiosity, environmental attitudes, and environmental knowledge towards green purchase behavior. Methodology/Technique – Data were collected by distributing questionnaire to 14 shopping centers in Pekanbaru City during April - September 2016. Pekanbaru city is one of the provincial capital in Indonesia which experienced many environmental problems. A total of 421 eligible respondents participated in this study. Data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. Findings – The results found that the effect of religiosity, environmental knowledge, and attitude toward green purchase behavior are significant. These three variables explain the green purchase behavior at 67.6%. Besides it also found that religiosity and environmental knowledge have the positive and meaningful impact on environmental attitudes. Therefore, it can be concluded that these two variables affect the green purchase behavior through environmental attitudes. Novelty – The model built in this study tried to integrate the spiritual aspect that has not been touched by previous researchers. The results of this study open up opportunities for further research to further improve both aspects of modeling in combination with other variables as well as the use of statistical analysis"""
Q57|Private eradication of mobile public bads|We consider analytically the non-cooperative behavior of many private property owners who each controls the stock of a public bad, which can grow and spread across spatial areas. We characterize the conditions under which private property owners will control or eradicate, and determine how this decision depends on property-specific environmental features and on the behavior of other landowners. We show that high mobility or lower control by others result in lower private control. But when the marginal dynamic cost of the bad is sufficiently large, we find that global eradication may be privately optimal – in these cases, eradication arises in the non-cooperative game and is also socially optimal so there is, in effect, no externality.
Q57|Compensating Environmental Losses Versus Creating Environmental Gains: Implications for Biodiversity Offsets|In the economic literature on the motivations underlying voluntary contributions to environmental public goods, little attention is granted to the way the overall objective of the environmental program is framed. A program which contributes to an increase of environmental quality can be perceived differently from a program designed to bring back the environmental quality to its original level, after it was damaged by human intervention. How does it impact participation rates and contribution levels? This paper addresses this issue in the context of agri-environmental schemes for biodiversity conservation. It compares farmers' willingness to participate in two contracts, one being framed as part of a biodiversity offset program, the other one as part of a biodiversity conservation program. We demonstrate with a discrete choice experiment that biodiversity-offsets programs need to offer a higher payment to enroll farmers compared to biodiversity conservation programs. This result is essentially driven by farmers who declare to have organic practices.
Q57|Respondent Uncertainty and Ordering Effect on Willingness to Pay for Salt Marsh Conservation in the Brest Roadstead (France)|This paper explores the potential link between the sensitivity of willingness to pay (WTP) to the order of presenting bid amounts in contingent valuation questions (ordering effect) and respondent uncertainty. The resource being valued is a public project to protect salt marshes against the spread of an invasive aquatic plant in the Brest roadstead (France). Valuation uncertainty is captured through a variant of payment card format where respondents are given the opportunity to report their WTP as either a single value (Option A) or an interval of values (Option B). The ordering effect is tested using both parametric models that ignore and control for the potential sample selection bias related to the choice between Option A and Option B, as well as non-parametric models. The results suggest that (1) respondents place substantial WTP values on salt marsh conservation, and (2) the ordering effect is linked to respondent uncertainty since only uncertain respondents react differently to changes in the order of presenting bid amounts. Specifically, for uncertain respondents, putting bid amounts in ascending order yields lower welfare estimates than putting bid amounts in descending order or random order. Policy recommendations and options to deal with ordering effect are discussed.
Q57|Valeurs carbone implicites des contributions nationales et trajectoires 2°|Ce document de travail analyse le degré d'effort nécessaire à l'atteinte des objectifs INDC des 13 pays du Deep Decarbonization Pathway Project. L'objectif est d'évaluer et de comparer les degrés d'effort requis pour atteindre les objectifs INDC, entre les pays, d'une part et, d'autre part, au regard de trajectoires de plus long terme (2050) s'inscrivant dans l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C. Une méthodologie est mise en place pour transcrire les INDC en niveaux d'émissions de CO2 nettes du LULUCF. Le modèle POLES est ensuite utilisé pour révéler la valeur carbone implicite des INDC et permettre une comparabilité des objectifs nationaux entre eux. Enfin, la création d'un scénario INDCext permet d'appréhender les INDC au regard d'objectifs nationaux de plus long terme (2050) compatibles avec l'objectif global de limiter la hausse des températures en deçà de 2°C.
Q57|Optimal Recycling Under Heterogeneous Waste Sources and the Environmental Kuznets Curve|We investigate how the relationship between economic growth and pollution is affected by the source of pollution: production or consumption. We are interested in polluting waste that cannot be naturally absorbed, but for which recycling efforts aim to avoid massive pollution accumulation with harmful consequences in the long run. We distinguish the cases where recycling efforts are capital-improving or capital-neutral. Based on both environmental and social welfare perspectives, we determine how the interaction between growth and polluting waste accumulation is affected by the source of pollution, i.e., either consumption or production, and by the fact that recycling may or may not act as an income generator, i.e., either capital-improving or capital-neutral recycling efforts. Several new results are extracted regarding optimal recycling policy and the Environmental Kuznets Curve. Beside the latter concern, we show both analytically and numerically that the optimal control of waste through recycling allows to reaching larger (resp., lower) consumption and capital stock levels under consumption-based waste compared to production-based waste while the latter permits to reach lower stocks of waste through lower recycling efforts.
Q57|Coalition Formation with Externalities: The Case of the Northeast Atlantic Mackerel Fishery in a Pre and Post Brexit Context|In this paper we apply the so-called partition function approach to study coalition formation in the North-east Atlantic mackerel fishery in the presence of externalities. Atlantic mackerel is mainly exploited by the European Union (EU), the United Kingdom (UK), Norway, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. Two games are considered. First, a four-player game where the UK is still a member of the EU. Second, a five-player game where the UK is no longer a member of the union. Each game is modelled in two stages. In the first stage, players form coalitions following a predefined set of rules. In the second stage, given the coalition structure that has been formed, each coalition choose the economic strategy that maximises its own net present value of the fishery given the behaviour of the other coalitions. The game is solved using backward induction to obtain the set of Nash equilibria coalition structures in pure strategies, if any. We find out that the current management regime is among the stable coalition structures in all eight scenarios of the four-player game, but in only one case of the five-player game. In addition, stability in the five-player game is sensitive to the growth function applied and the magnitude of the stock elasticity parameter.
Q57|Policies for forest landscape management – A conceptual approach with an empirical application for Swedish Conditions|Habitat loss and habitat fragmentation are major factors leading to forest biodiversity decline. This paper discusses landscape planning as strategy to improve connectivity in a landscape with a heterogeneous distribution of ecologically valuable areas across land owners. A tax-fund system is proposed, that following the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, tries to spread the burden of conservation equally across land owners while optimizing the environmental outcome. Design options of such a tax-fund system are discussed along the lines of a simple theoretical model. Financial effects of a tax-fund system are computed for a small model landscape set in Sweden. Two design questions stand out as particularly important. The first is whether the policy is intended to be self-sustained among the land owners or if the budget can be supplemented by general tax money. The second is whether the land owners or the relevant authority select the stands for conservation set-aside.
Q57|Costs of traffic accidents with ungulates in Sweden|Traffic accidents with ungulates pose a serious problem in many countries, and there is a need for predicting accidents and costs at a large scale for an efficient management of the accidents. Based on the assumption that traffic accidents are determined by traffic volume and ungulate population sizes, this study provides a relatively simple method for calculating and predicting costs of current and future traffic accidents with roe deer, wild boar, and moose in Sweden. A logistic population model is assumed for all ungulates, and econometric methods are used for predicting vehicle accidents with panel data on traffic accidents, traffic load, bags, hunting licenses, and landscape characteristics for each county and year during 2003-2015. The calculated total discounted cost of traffic accidents over a period of 15 years is relatively stable around 1300 million SEK per year in present value (which corresponds to 0.03% of gross domestic product in 2015), but the allocation of costs among ungulates differs. Costs of vehicle accidents with moose account for the largest share of the cost (44%), but accidents with wild boar show the most rapid increase over a 15 year period because of the estimated relatively high intrinsic growth rate and the recent establishment of this animal in several counties. The predicted costs are, however, sensitive to the assumption of future hunting pressure and traffic volume.
Q57|The Expansion of Modern Agriculture and Global Biodiversity Decline: An Integrated Assessment|The world is banking on a major increase in food production, if the dietary needs and food preferences of an increasing, and increasingly rich, population are to be met. This requires the further expansion of modern agriculture, but modern agriculture rests on a small number of highly productive crops and its expansion has led to a significant loss of global biodiversity. Ecologists have shown that biodiversity loss results in lower plant productivity, while agricultural economists have linked biodiversity loss on farms with increasing variability of crop yields, and sometimes lower mean yields. In this paper we consider the macro-economic consequences of the continued expansion of particular forms of intensive, modern agriculture, with a focus on how the loss of biodiversity affects food production. We employ a quantitative, structurally estimated model of the global economy, which jointly determines economic growth, population and food demand, agricultural innovations and land conversion. We show that even small effects of agricultural expansion on productivity via biodiversity loss might be sufficient to warrant a moratorium on further land conversion.
Q57|Crisis and Reorganization in Urban Dynamics: The Barcelona Case Study|"We use the adaptive cycle theory to improve our understanding of cycles of urban change in the city of Barcelona from 1953 to present. Most specifically, we explore the vulnerabilities and windows of opportunity these cycles for change introduced in the release (?) and reorganization (?) phases. In the two recurring cycles of urban change analyzed (before and after 1979), we observe two complementary loops. During the front-loop, financial and natural resources are efficiently exploited by homogenous dominant groups (private developers, the bourgeoisie, politicians or technocrats) with the objective to promote capital accumulation based on private (or private-public partnership) investments. In contrast, the back-loop emerges from Barcelona's heterogeneous urban social movements (neighborhood associations, activists, squatters, cooperatives and NGOs), whose objectives are diverse but converge in their discontent with the status-quo of conservation (the K phase) and their desire for a ""common good"" that includes social justice, social cohesion, participatory governance, and wellbeing for all. The heterogeneity of these social networks (shadow groups) fosters learning and social innovation and gives them the flexibility that the front-loop's dominant groups lack to trigger change not only within but also across spatial scale (local community-based, neighborhood, city) and time dimensions, promoting a cross-scale process of revolt and stabilization, also known as Panarchy."
Q57|Trade Patterns and the Ecological Footprint - a theory-based Empirical Approach|"With global specialization and trade, countries make directly but also indirectly use of the environment via traded goods. Based on the theory of comparative advantages, the Heckscher-Ohlin-Vanek approach, we are using the Ecological Footprint as a broad measure of environmental use because its methodology explicitly accounts for the environmental use embodied in the traded goods. The comparative advantages depend on the endowment of environment as well as on the stringency of environmental policy which regulate the access to these factors. We empirically analyse the determinants of the ecological side of the trade pattern, i.e. whether the net export of the Ecological Footprint, embodied in the traded goods, depends on the comparative advantages as predicted by the theory, but also on a couple of control variables. A special focus is put on the role of environmental policy stringency which links our analysis to the ""Pollution Haven"" hypothesis. We also briefly analyse the role of FDI flows for the emergence of the ecological specialization pattern of production and trade."
Q57|Testing the Influence of Substitute Sites in Nature Valuation by Using Spatial Discounting Factors|Abstract This paper investigates the effect of nearby nature substitute sites on preferences for nature restoration. Contrary to prior studies, we use a respondent-centric approach to control for substitute sites. We assess each respondent-specific spatial context by computing densities of nature substitute sites within various ranges from each respondent’s home. This approach considers the use and non-use values of nature together. Data from three similar discrete choice experiments carried out in Flanders (Belgium) are compared. Different spatial discounting factors are tested to explore how the substitution effect behaves with regard to distance. Latent class analyses are performed to account for preference heterogeneity among respondents. We observe divergent behaviours across groups of respondents. The “distance-to-substitutes” affects how respondents gauge substitute sites. We find a significant influence of the squared average buffer distance but this effect varies in sign across case studies and classes of respondents. Our results demonstrate that individual-specific GIS data can significantly improve the representation of the spatial context and the transferability of value functions. However, the roles played by preference heterogeneity and nature perception on respondents’ capacity to value nature still deserves further attention in future research.
Q57|Cost-effectiveness of conservation payment schemes under climate change|Climate change is expected to be one of the key threats for biodiversity conservation in this century. Conservation literature has pointed to the inadequacy of current biodiversity conservation practices relying predominantly on static approaches and showed the need to develop “climate-proof” conservation strategies. However, this debate has taken place largely in the conservation planning literature so far and ignored incentivebased conservation policy instruments such as conservation payments. Our general understanding is thus poor about how should conservation payments be designed so that they can contribute to biodiversity conservation under climate change in a cost-effective manner. In this work we develop an ecological-economic model and investigate the cost-effectiveness of various payment design options involving varying degrees of payments’ differentiation and targeting in a landscape whose dynamics is driven by climate change, while considering the impact of changes in key economic and ecological parameters. We provide the first comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of conservation payment designs in a changing climate on a conceptual level. Our results demonstrate the significant cost-effectiveness gains enabled by payments’ differentiation and targeting for biodiversity conservation under climate change. Moreover, we demonstrate the existence of connectivity/area trade-offs under climate change. The cost-effectiveness performance of targeted payments compared to untargeted differentiated payments increase with a decreasing species dispersal ability but decrease with decreasing climate stability in the landscape.
Q57|Benefit Transfer for Ecosystem Services|Benefits transfer is the projection of benefits from one place and time to another to estimate the benefits of a proposed project or policy; this includes the adaptation of an original study to a new policy application at the same location. The appeal of a benefits transfer is that it can be cost effective, both monetarily and in time. Using previous studies, analysts can select existing results to construct a transferred value for the desired amenity influenced by the policy change. Benefits transfer practices are generally applicable to valuing ecosystem services as well as specific types of ecosystem services. An ideal benefits transfer will scale value estimates to both the ecosystem services and to the preferences of those who hold values; benefits transfers for many applications only do the latter.
Q57|Tropical Forests, Tipping Points, and the Social Cost of Deforestation|Recent work has suggested that tropical forest and savanna represent alternative stable states, which are subject to drastic switches at tipping points, in response to changes in rainfall patterns and other drivers. Deforestation cost studies have ignored the likelihood and possible economic impact of a forest-savanna critical transition, therefore underestimating the true social cost of deforestation. We explore the implications of a forest-savanna critical transition and propose an alternative framework for calculating the economic value of a standing tropical forest. Our framework is based on an average cost method, as opposed to currently used marginal cost methods, for the design of optimal land-use policy or payments for ecosystem services. We apply this framework to the calculation of the social cost of deforestation of the Amazon rainforest.
Q57|Estimating the Impact of Crop Diversity on Agricultural Productivity in South Africa|Crop biodiversity has the potential to enhance resistance to strains due to biotic and abiotic factors and to improve crop production and farm revenues. To investigate the effect of crop biodiversity on crop productivity, we build a probabilistic model based on ecological mechanisms to describe crop survival and productivity according to diversity. From this analytic model, we derive reduced forms that are empirically estimated using detailed field data of South African agriculture combined with satellite derived data. Our results confirm that diversity has a positive and significant impact on crop survival odds. We show the consistency of these results with the underlying ecologic and agricultural mechanisms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q57|Commercial fishing and outdoor recreation benefits of water quality improvements in the Chesapeake Bay|We estimated the economic benefits of the Chesapeake Bay TMDL to commercial fish harvesters and consumers, recreational anglers, and other outdoor recreators. To forecast the impacts of the TMDL on harvested fish and shellfish stocks in the bay and connected Atlantic coast waters, we used a summary of judgments from an expert panel and a multi-species model of Chesapeake Bay fisheries. We estimated benefits to consumers in commercial fish markets using a multi-stage inverse demand system, which models price as a function of exogenous supply and accounts for substitution possibilities between 13 different species and as many as five regions. Models were estimated using monthly harvest data from the years 1991 to 2011. The estimated parameters of the inverse demand systems were then used to calculate compensating and equivalent variation from the changes in harvests between the baseline and TMDL scenarios. To estimate producer surplus changes, we assumed that fishing effort will remain fixed at recent levels in each fishery, so harvesting costs do not increase due to the TMDL. The resulting estimates of commercial fishing benefits range between $3 and $26 million per year. We also examined the implications of alternative assumptions about the management regime in each fishery, including fixed effort, open access, and maximum sustainable surplus. We calculated benefits to recreational anglers using a linked participation and site-choice recreation demand model. The model was estimated using angler intercept survey data from the Marine Recreational Fisheries Statistics Survey (MRFSS). Catch rates were calculated using historic reported catch from the MRFSS. We accounted for the sample selection bias caused by the non-random intercept survey sampling design using weights based on historic visitation frequencies at each intercept site. The intercept data were used to estimate a random utility site-choice model, and counts of trips from respondent zip codes were used to estimate a negative binomial participation model conditional on the inclusive value of all sites as estimated by the site-choice model. The resulting estimates of recreational fishing benefits range between $5 and $59 million per year. We used a separate recreation demand model to estimate the benefits associated with other outdoor recreation activities. The model was estimated using aggregate data on the total number of visitors to national and state parks in Maryland, Virginia, and Delaware. The aggregate visitation data alone are insufficient to estimate all parameters of the model, so these data were supplemented with survey data on the number of recreation trips taken to the Chesapeake Bay collected from a random sample of individuals in the study area. The marginal effects of water quality on recreators’ site choices were estimated in a second-stage regression, using estimates of site-specific constants from the first-stage site-choice model as the dependent variable and measures of average water quality conditions and other fixed site attributes as explanatory variables. The central estimates of the outdoor recreation benefits (exclusive of recreational fishing) are between $105 to $280 million per year.
Q57|Measuring the economic value of the effects of chemicals on ecological systems and human health|This paper reviews and discusses the existing methods for placing a value on the effects of chemicals on human health and the environment. It surveys both methods and non-market methods, discussing their advantage and limitations. For example, when valuing non-fatal illnesses, the cost-of-illness approaches captures labour income lost to illness and medical expenditures undertaken to mitigate the illness, but fails to account for the value of the disutility of the illnesses. The paper also discusses mortality risk valuation, and the widely used metric termed the Value of a Statistical Life, the difficulties associated with estimating it, and the appropriateness of any adjustments for futurity, age, and the nature of the risk itself. Finally, the paper takes up the issue whether the source of the health risks (e.g., chemicals versus other forms of pollution versus others) affects how much the public values reducing those risks.
Q57|Chemical risk assessment and translation to socio-economic assessments|The purpose of this working paper is to review existing chemical risk assessment methods in the context of supporting socio-economic cost-benefit analysis, focusing on more “typical” risk assessments that may not have strong epidemiologic data and/or were not originally designed to support socio-economic analyses. A number of case studies of such “typical” chemical risk assessments were reviewed with respect to their suitability for supporting socio-economic analyses.
Q57|Possibilities and challenges in transfer and generalisation of monetary estimates for environmental and health benefits of regulating chemicals|This paper reviews and discusses existing methodologies for transferring and extrapolating the economic value of health and environmental impacts across chemicals, and identifies challenges with such value transfer and when it can be suitable. The value transfer methodologies describes can be used to estimate the economic benefits of chemical management regulatory frameworks as a whole, as well as in cost-benefit analyses (CBAs) of risk management measures for individual chemicals. For economic valuation of mortality risks from chemicals, the OECD database of Stated Preference (SP) studies of Value of Statistical Life (VSL) , which should be continuously updated with new valuation studies, has a sufficient number of primary studies internationally to conduct value transfer using meta-analytic regressions. However, the empirical evidence on acute and chronic morbidity endpoints, especially concerning all costs components of chronic illnesses, seems to be scarce. The same is true for chemical-related environmental impacts, especially related to ecosystem services, for the multitude of chemicals. Thus, the main methodological and informational challenge for valid value transfer of environmental and health impacts from chemical regulations seems to be new primary valuation studies of morbidity and ecosystem services impacts caused by exposure to (groups of) chemicals. These new primary valuation studies should be designed with value transfer in mind, and cover several countries, in order to extrapolate and generalise the economic values to evaluate international chemical regulations in CBAs. These new primary studies should ideally cover all relevant scales of the impacts, in order to develop generalised adjustment factors for differences in scale of the impacts between the study sites and the policy site. This would improve the spatial transfer of values. The same is true for the combination of Geographical Information System (GIS) data with existing primary studies of impacts at different scales. Furthermore, these new primary studies should be repeated over time in order to provide more information about how values for the relevant impacts change over time; as preferences, scarcity of the public good and the real income of the affected population change. This would improve temporal transfer.
Q57|Indicators on Terrestrial and Marine Protected Areas: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 countries|This paper details a methodology for calculating the extent of terrestrial and marine protected areas recorded in the World Database on Protected Areas by country, type and IUCN management categories. The method allows the data on protected areas to be summarised in a harmonised and more detailed way than is currently available, without requiring any additional reporting by countries. When used in combination with other information about protected areas, this new indicator can help better understand the extent and focus of countries’ conservation efforts.
Q57|Modelling the effects of anti-poaching patrols on wildlife diversity in the Phou Chomvoy Provincial Protected Area| Worldwide, wildlife poaching results in significant losses to biodiversity, especially for those species which are most vulnerable and at risk of extinction. Strategies exist for reducing poaching pressure, including anti-poaching patrols that collect and remove wire snares. Studies are available that focus on the impact of poaching. Yet, not much work evaluates the effectiveness of poaching mitigation actions. We outline a modelling methodology that aims to predict the effectiveness of different management strategies on the poaching problem in the Phou Chomvoy Provincial Protected Area, Bolikhamxay Province, Lao PDR. Wildlife management in the study involves the local community through villager-led anti-poaching patrols. The goal is to develop a quantified relationship between patrol inputs and biodiversity outcomes. The results show that, without patrols, 18 out of the 19 species investigated would be poached and removed from the protected area over the next ten years. At low levels of patrol-effort ten species would survive. With increasing patrol effort, the total number of animals and species saved increase, but with diminishing marginal effect on species count improvement. At the highest patrol-effort management scenario modelled, all species are saved except for one; the Northern Pig-Tailed Macaque, which goes extinct under all management scenarios. This is the first time modelling has been undertaken at this scale to examine poacher-patrol interaction in the Southeast Asia region. Our work shows a positive effect of patrol effort on the number of endangered species saved. This work will be used to inform protected area management policy in Lao PDR, specifically, the development of Payment for Environmental Services schemes.
Q57|Biodiversity Productive Capacity in Mixed Farms of North-West of France: a Multi-output Primal System|Previous studies on the productive value of biodiversity emphasized that crop diversity increases crop yields. Here, we focus on the productivity of crop diversity and permanent grasslands for crops and milk. Using a GMM approach, we estimate detailed production functions using a sample of 3960 mixed farms from the FADN between 2002 and 2013. We highlight that permanent grasslands enhance crop production. We confirm that crop diversity increases crop and milk yields. Permanent grasslands and crop diversity are however substitute inputs. We also find that both of these biodiversity productive capacities influence variable input productivities. These results suggest the potential adaptations of farmers’ choices to environmental measures.
Q57|Cost of Procuring Invasive Eastern Red Cedar Biomass for use as a Biobased Product Feedstock| Suppression of prairie fires enabled Eastern Red Cedar (ERC) to invade and thrive on more than 12 million infested acres previously dominated by native grasses. Feedstock procurement for a biorefinery designed to use ERC biomass, would be unique relative to energy crop production systems such as switchgrass that can be expected to harvest feedstock produced on the same unit of land each year. Density of ERC is heterogeneous. After cutting, ERC does not regrow and after ERC is removed landowners could be expected to take measures such as prescribed fire to control it. A mixed integer mathematical programming model is constructed to determine the cost to obtain the rights to harvest, harvest, and deliver a specified quantity of ERC biomass each year, for a period of 20 years, to a biorefinery location. The optimal strategy depends critically on several assumptions including the proportion of ERC biomass under contract enabling ERC harvest once during the 20 years; ERC growth rate; ERC density; discount rate; harvest and transportation cost; and quantity of biomass required per day. Optimal harvest strategy, optimal biorefinery location, and maximum daily biorefinery capacity, are sensitive to tree density and the proportion of ERC biomass in the region from which ERC can be removed. The expected cost of delivered biomass ranges from $41 to $92 per ton depending on the assumption of proportion of ERC biomass under contract, quantity of biomass required at the biorefinery, harvest cost, growth rate of unharvested trees under contract, and discount rate.
Q57|An Economic Analysis of Shellfish Harvests Regulations for Food Safety| Among causative agents of food-borne illness associated with shellfish consumption, Vibrio vulnificus has been identified as a special concern due to the high mortality it can induce, particularly to individuals with poor health and immune disorders. Food-borne V. vulnificus infections increase during the summer months due to higher densities of the bacteria in warmer water and increased risks associated with inappropriate handling of shellfish. To prevent the incidence of V. vulnificus infections, the FDA requires shellfish producing states to develop a Vibrio control plan and conduct an annual risk evaluation. In Florida the daily harvest period is regulated to minimize the length of time between shellfish harvest and processing, and this harvest period has been recently reduced for summer harvest to prevent food borne illness. The adoption of these public health regulations could affect the profitability and sustainability of oyster harvesting in Florida, especially among resource-dependent coastal communities. This study combines bioeconomic modeling and cost benefit analysis to assess the impact of this regulation on fishers’ harvest and revenues, and weighs that impact against the regulation’s potential public health benefits. Our results show that fishers will experience reduced harvests early in the season due to the shorter length of the harvest days, but this initial loss will be recouped later in the season as harvests remain high for longer than they would have if the harvest time regulations were not in place. The new regulations may yield significant net benefits even if only a small number of cases of V. vulnificus can be prevented.
Q57|The effect of the number of alternatives in a choice experiment with an application to the Macquarie Marshes, AU|No abstract is available for this item.
Q57|Economic Reforms and Carbon Dioxide Emissions in European and Central Asian Transition Economies| Global warming and other adverse climate change impacts induced by anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions is a major public policy concern around the world. This paper examines the impacts of market-based economic reforms on per capita CO2 emissions in the European and Central Asian transition economies where environmental degradation was pervasive prior reforms. A dynamic panel data model is employed for this purpose for 28 countries covering 22 years from 1990-2012. Our results suggest that reforms in competition policy and corporate governance are the significant driver of emissions reductions in the region. Therefore, advances in competition policy and governance reforms are desirable given the available scope to extend these reforms. The Kyoto Protocol had no significant effect in reducing emissions levels while the relationship between economic growth and emissions seems weak based on our results. The results indicate that reducing energy use by increasing energy efficiency and investments in renewable energy are necessary to reduce the carbon emissions level and mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change in the region.
Q57|Coaseian biodiversity conservation. Who benefits?|We analyze strategies to conserve worldwide biodiversity assuming that biodiversity and ecosystem services are positively correlated with that share of land that is effectively protected by land-use restrictions against the deterioration of ecosystems (land-use approach). The willingness-to-pay for biodiversity conservation is positive in developed countries (North), but zero in developing countries (South). The strategies of biodiversity conservation are cooperation among the North (Regime 2) and financial support of biodiversity conservation from North to South modeled as an international market for biodiversity conservation (Regime 3). We investigate the impact on biodiversity conservation and welfare when the world economy moves from business as usual (BAU, Regime 1) to the stand-alone Regimes 2 and 3 and to the combination of the Regimes 2 and 3, called Regime 4. Regime 4 turns out to be the Coaseian socially optimal solution to biodiversity conservation. In a parametric version of the model, we derive a number of unexpected results. The move from BAU to Regime 2 may reduce biodiversity conservation and welfare in North and South. Regime 3 fares better, but it hardly improves welfare and the conservation of biodiversity in our simulations. Although Regime 4 is socially optimal, its distributional effects may be undesirable, because the North or the South are worse off in Regime 4 than in BAU for some subsets of parameters.
Q57|Can degrowth overcome the leakage problem of unilateral climate policy?|Unilateral climate policy suffers from carbon leakage, i.e. the (partial) offset of the initial emission reduction by increases in other countries. Different than most typically discussed climate policies, degrowth not only aims at reducing the fossil fuel use in an economy, but rather (besides other social and political goals) at a reduction of all factor inputs, which may lead to different leakage implications. We conduct the first investigation of degrowth in a multi-country setting in order to (i) compare the leakage effects of national pure emission reduction policies to degrowth scenarios, (ii) identify underlying channels by decomposing the implied emission changes into scale, composition, and technique effects, and (iii) investigate which country characteristics determine degrowth's relative effectiveness to overcome the leakage problem. Using a structural gravity model, we find that degrowth indeed significantly reduces leakage by keeping the sectoral composition of the country more stable and reducing uncommitted countries' incentives to shift towards more energy-intensive production techniques. The higher effectiveness of degrowth in reducing carbon emissions is most pronounced for small and trade-open economies with comparatively clean production technologies.
Q57|Going along with the crowd? The importance of group effects for environmental deliberative monetary valuation|Deliberation is expected to enhance the validity and/or the democratic status of stated preference methods. Those objectives are challenged by the potential presence of group effects. Deference to the information publicly announced by others and social pressures to conformity hinder people’s ability to express reflective and independent preferences. Through a split sample contingent valuation survey, we tested whether participating in group discussion affects willingness to pay (WTP). We also test for the presence of group effects. Participants in group discussion stated a higher WTP, and we did not find evidence of group effects. These results are favorable to the deliberative project ***** La valoración deliberativa ha sido propuesta para mejorar la validez y el estatus democrático de los métodos de preferencias declaradas. La presencia de efectos grupales pone en duda la realización de estos objetivos. Falencias informativas y presiones sociales dificultan la expresión autónoma de preferencias. Se aplicó una encuesta de valoración contingente siguiendo un procedimiento cuasi-experimental con el propósito de estimar el efecto de la deliberación en la DAP y detectar la presencia de efectos grupales. Se observó una mayor DAP para los participantes en deliberación, la cual no estuvo acompañada de efectos grupales. Estos resultados son favorables a la deliberación.
Q57|Cambiando de perspectiva en la economía de la mitigación del cambio climático|Este artículo plantea una discusión de las corrientes de la economía que han abordado la relación entre el cambio climático (CC) con el sistema económico. Se realiza un análisis crítico de la economía del bienestar, que ve el CC como una externalidad y se enfoca en el valor presente el bienestar futuro por medio de la tasa social de descuento, y se plantea un giro hacia la economía ecológica, fundamentada en la sostenibilidad fuerte, la incertidumbre irreductible y una base normativa diferente. Con esto, se cuestiona la relevancia del crecimiento del consumo como fundamento del desarrollo. Al final del artículo, se enfatiza sobre la importancia de este giro para la investigación y la evaluación de la política climática. ***** This paper presents a discussion of the economic theories that have addressed the relationship between climate change (CC) and the economic system. The document critically analyses the welfare economics viewpoint, which sees CC as an externality and focuses on the present value of future welfare by using a social discount rate. We propose a shift towards ecological economics, which is founded on strong sustainability, the irreducibility of uncertainty, and a different normative basis. As such, we discuss the relevancy of growth consumption as a fundament for development. The paper concludes by emphasizing the relevance of this shift for climate research and policy evaluation.
Q57|Agroecologia e agricoltura convenzionale a confronto. Un’analisi di sostenibilità socio-economica e ambientale nella produzione familiare di caffè in Brasile/Comparing agroecology and conventional agriculture. A socio-economic and environmental sustainability analysis in coffee smallholding production in Brazil|This paper aim at comparing agroecological and conventional practices for small coffee producers in Leste Region of Minas Gerais state (Brazil). Six production units have been deeply analyzed and compared in: income generation with price volatility, productivity, working conditions, product diversification, agrobiodiversity, cost composition, environmental impacts and forest conservation. The results show that agroecology practices help local small farmers in stabilizing and diversifying incomes, reducing production risks and improve working conditions. Furthermore agroecological practices both reduce the use of chemical inputs and improve forest conservation. According with the results of this study agroecology is a cost-effective and sustainable alternative of conventional monoculture agriculture for smallholder farmers of the examined region.
Q57|Quelques leçons d'un modèle de macroéconomie écologique à 2 périodes|Cet article revisite un modèle néoclassique de l'enseignement de la macroéconomie (Williamson, 2014) en y introduisant une contrainte de ressource naturelle intertemporelle, tout en respectant le postulat de soutenabilité forte. Deux régimes, appelés respectivement contraint et non contraint, sont distingués selon que la contrainte de ressource (CR) est liante ou non. Dans le Régime contraint, un durcissement de la CR (i) a un impact négatif sur les indicateurs macroéconomiques d'activité a chaque période et (ii) modifie le partage de la valeur ajoutée au détriment du facteur travail (même si la ressource est gratuite). Une CR liante modifie aussi l'efficacité des politiques de soutien de la demande. Le progrès technique n'a un impact positif sur l'activité que s'il permet d'économiser le(s) facteur(s) de production limitant(s), c-a-d les facteurs travail et capital dans le cadre du Régime non contraint et la ressource dans le cadre du Régime contraint. Dans une extension ou l'usage de la ressource se traduit par de la pollution, nous étudions les conséquences d'une politique qui laisse délibérément une partie de la ressource inexploitée. Si la politique a des effets négatifs sur l'activité et la consommation, le bien-être des ménages augmente si leur désutilité marginale de la pollution est suffisamment forte. Ce résultat montre l'importance de considérer d'autres mesures que les indicateurs macroéconomiques traditionnels pour évaluer les politiques environnementales. We introduce an intertemporal resource constraint into the textbook 2-period neoclassical macro-model proposed by Williamson (2014). The resource is free but is an essential input in final production and is complementary to man-made inputs (labour and capital). Two regimes, called respectively constrained and unconstrained, are possible whether the resource constraint is binding or not. In the constrained regime, a strengthening of the resource constraint has a negative impact on economic activity and employment in the two periods. It also changes the value-added sharing in a way unfavourable to labour income. A binding resource constraint also alters the effectiveness of demand policies. Technical progress only improves economic activity in the two periods if it improves the productivity of man-made inputs in the unconstrained regime and the resource productivity in the constrained one.
Q57|Intangible capital and sectoral energy intensity: Evidence from 40 economies|Intangible capital has been found to be an increasingly important source of productivity and economic growth. However, its effects on energy intensity have received little attention. Given the importance of reducing energy intensity, this study tests the relationship between sectoral intangible capital and sectoral energy intensity in 40 economies from 1995 to 2007 using data from World Input Output Database (WIOD). It is found that the increase in sectoral intangible capital is associated with the decline in sectoral energy intensity. The results remain robust given various forms of econometric specification (OLS, random effects, fixed effects and system GMM). Compared with previous literature, this study proposes a simple theoretical linkage between sectoral intangible capital and sectoral energy intensity, and for the first time confirms this relationship worldwide. This study also provides policies implications in promoting intangible investment and the knowledge economy.
Q57|The Ecosystem Impacts of Severe Warming|This paper uses a quantitative dynamic ecosystem vegetation model to explore the potential impact of warming up to 9-12 degrees C on global ecosystems. The paper does not find evidence of a global collapse in terrestrial ecosystems but there is evidence of substantial changes. Temperate and tropical forests expand and replace boreal forests and forests shift to woodlands and parkland at high temperatures. Net primary productivity and standing forest biomass per hectare rise. These changes will affect dependent animal species. Further research is needed to measure the resulting benefits and damages to market and nonmarket services.
