Q58|Does China Fall into Poverty-Environment Traps? Evidence from Long-term Income Dynamics and Urban Air Pollution|This paper examines the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution using a joint distribution dynamics approach. This approach enables to estimate the transition process and long-run distribution and to examine the mechanisms behind the evolution process. The approach is applied to a unique panel data of CO2, SO2 and PM2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5µm) for 286 Chinese cities over the period 2002-2014. Strong persistence in the transition dynamics suggests that this convergence process may require a long time. The distribution dynamics analyses indicate that multiple equilibria are the major characteristics in the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution in China, which implies that inter-regional technology spillover may be an important way to accelerate convergence. Our results further support the existence of poverty-environmental trap in PM2.5 concentrations. Thus, new environmental models are expected to be developed to explain this new stylized fact. The findings provide strong support for taking more aggressive measures that consider income and urban environment simultaneously to reduce poverty and air pollutions together in the Chinese cities.
Q58|Financial Transfers and Climate Cooperation|We investigate the impact of side-payments to countries that have a low net benefit from participating in efficient climate cooperation in a repeated games framework with investment in different technologies. We consider different timings of these payments and different degrees of commitment. If countries cannot commit ex ante to transfer funds to low-benefit participants to an agreement, then there is a trade-off. Investment based agreements, where transfers occur before emissions are realized, but after investments have been committed, maximize the scope of cooperation. Results-based agreements minimize transfers whenever these agreements implement cooperation. If countries can commit to transfer funds, then agreements in which countries with high benefits of climate cooperation pre-commit to results-based payments to countries with low benefits both maximize the scope of cooperation and minimize transfers.
Q58|Regional Climate Policy under Deep Uncertainty|We study climate change policies by using the novel pattern scaling approach of regional transient climate response to develop an economyclimate model under conditions of deep uncertainty associated with: (i) temperature dynamics, (ii) regional climate change damages, and (iii) policy in the form of carbon taxes. We analyze both cooperative and noncooperative outcomes in a regional model. Under deep uncertainty, robust control policies are more conservative regarding emissions, the higher the aversion to ambiguity, while damage uncertainty seems to produce more conservative behavior than climate dynamics uncertainty. Cooperative policies tend to be more conservative than noncooperative policies for similar concerns about uncertainty but, as concerns about uncertainty increase, policies tend to move closer to each other. Asymmetries in concerns about uncertainty tend to produce large deviations in regional emissions policy at the noncooperative solution. If aversion to ambiguity is sufficiently high, optimal regulation aiming to attain a cooperative steady state or a steady state that satisfies conditions for a Nash equilibrium might not be possible. The result is associated with the existence of regional hot spots and temperature spillovers across regions, a situation which emerges in the real world. In such cases, deep uncertainty about the impacts of climate change makes robust regulation infeasible.
Q58|Regional Climate Policy under Deep Uncertainty: Robust Control, Hot Spots and Learning|We study climate change policies using the novel pattern scaling approach of regional transient climate response, to develop a regional economy-climate model under conditions of deep uncertainty associated with: (i) temperature dynamics, (ii) regional climate change damages, and (iii) policy in the form of carbon taxes. We analyze cooperative and noncooperative outcomes. Under deep uncertainty, robust control policies are more conservative regarding emissions, the higher the aversion to ambiguity is, while damage uncertainty seems to produce more conservative behavior than climate dynamics uncertainty. As concerns about uncertainty increase, cooperative and noncooperative policies tend to move close together. Asymmetries in concerns about uncertainty tend to produce large deviations in regional emissions policy at the noncooperative solution. We calculate the cost of robustness in terms of welfare. If aversion to ambiguity is suciently high, optimal regulation might not be possible. The result is associated with the existence of regional hot spots and temperature spillovers across regions, a situation which emerges in the real world. In such cases, deep uncertainty about the impacts of climate change makes robust regulation infeasible. We show that, if resources are devoted to learning, which reduces uncertainty concerns, robust regulation is facilitated.
Q58|DICE-RD: An Implementation of Rate-Related Damages in the DICE model|A growing body of literature from the natural and the social sciences indicates that the rate of temperature increase is another key driver of total climate damages, next to the absolute increase in temperature compared to the pre-industrial level. Nonetheless, the damage functions employed in integrated assessment models that aim at studying the economics of climate change are usually based on the absolute temperature increase alone. Hence, these models neglect additional damag-es that will occur if the rate of temperature increase exceeds a certain threshold that overstrains the adaptive capacities of ecological and social systems. In the present paper, we implement such rate-related damages in the well-known integrated assessment model DICE-2016R. Using the resulting model variant DICE-RD we show for several different scenarios that an insufficient climate policy that ignores rate-related damages can lead to substantial economic losses.
Q58|Carbon Taxes and Stranded Assets: Evidence from Washington State|The climate challenge requires ambitious climate policy. A sudden increase in carbon prices can lead to major shocks to the stock market. Some assets will lose part of their value, others all of it, and hence become “stranded”. If the markets are not ready to absorb the shock, a financial crisis could follow. How well investors anticipate, and thus how large these shocks may be, is an empirical question. We analyze stock market reactions to the rejection of two carbon tax initiatives by voters in Washington state. We build proper counterfactuals for Washington state firms and find that these modest policy proposals with limited jurisdiction caused substantial readjustments on the stock market, especially for carbon-intensive stocks. Our results reinforce concerns about “stranded assets” and the risk of financial contagion. Our policy implications support the inclusion of transition risks in macroprudential policymaking and carbon disclosure and climate stress tests as the main policy responses.
Q58|Assessment of the drafted German Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan|Germany is struggling to meet its 2020 greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and climate goals. Against this background, we analyze the current draft National Energy and Climate Plan (NECP) that sets out how Germany aims to achieve its national and European climate goals by 2030. We introduce the current stage of the country’s climate policy and, by looking at the different emission reduction measures under discussion, examine why Germany will probably miss its CO2 emissions reduction goals. We conclude that, based on the climate package announced in September 2019, Germany will get closer to the achievement of its 2030 targets than was anticipated in the NECP draft; nevertheless, the new climate package leaves a significant gap between the new measures and the 2030 climate goals.
Q58|Global unanimity agreement on the carbon budget|Carbon budgets are a useful way to frame the climate mitigation challenge and much easier to agree upon than the allocation of emissions. We propose a mechanism with countries agreeing on the global carbon budget, while the decision to emit is decentralized at the country level. The revenue is collected in a global fund and allocated according to endogenously defined weights proportional to the marginal cost of climate change. The proposal features a unanimous agreement of the national citizenries of the world and global Pareto efficiency. We run a simulation in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, with zero emissions after 2055. At the Global Unanimity Equilibrium, permits are priced at 90$/tC, yielding 1.3 trillion dollars annually. Africa, India and the less developed countries in Asia are the only net recipients, while the US and China are the largest net contributors.
Q58|Decentralization with porous borders: Public production in a federation with tax competition and spillovers|We analyze the strategic interaction of regional and federal governments using a model that includes fiscal externalities in the form of inter-regional capital tax competition and technical externalities in the form of inter-regional spillovers. The federal government aims to correct for these inefficiencies using a transfer system. If the regional governments are policy leaders (such that federal policy is set conditional on regional choices), they will internalize both fiscal and technical externalities but free-ride on the transfer system. Efficiency can be achieved by introducing a second transfer scheme that is independent of regional public production. If the federal government sets its policy first and can commit itself to it, the outcome is efficient only if matching grants are used that are financed outside of the transfer system.
Q58|CO2-Steuer, Zertifikate-Handel und Innovationsförderung als Klimapolitik-Instrumente|Eine CO2-Steuer einzuführen für nicht vom CO2-Zertifkate-Handel erfasste Sektoren erscheint als ökonomisch-ökologisch vernünftig für Deutschland und andere OECDLänder. Die Steuer sollte weitgehend aufkommensneutral sein, könnte aber mit einem geringen Anteil zeitweise auch eine verstärkte emissionsmindernde Innovationsförderung finanzieren, die wiederum die ökonomischen Lasten von Zertifikatehandel und CO2-Steuer zu mindern hilft. Der Zertifikate-Handel ist grundsätzlich ökonomisch effizient, sofern man langfristig einen global einheitlichen Preis für Zertifikate erreicht – das ist angesichts der Zielmarke für eine weitgehende CO2-Neutralität des Wirtschaftens in der EU bis 2050 eine mittelfristig anzugehende Aufgabe, wobei zudem die CO2-Steuerhöhe nahe beim Zertifikatepreis liegen sollte. Hier gibt es eine wichtige Aufgabe bzw. Option für die deutsche EU-Ratspräsidentschaft in der zweiten Jahreshälfte 2020. Steueraspekte der Innovationsförderung und speziell auch klimafreundlicher Innovationsdynamik sind zu bedenken.
Q58|Expected Costs of Damage From Hurricane Winds and Storm-Related Flooding|Damage from hurricane winds, storm surges, and heavy rain imposes costs on private entities, such as households and businesses, and on all levels of government. By CBOâ€™s estimate, the expected economic losses (average losses over the long run) from most types of such damage total $54 billion per year: $34 billion to the residential sector, $9 billion to commercial businesses, and $12 billion to the public sector.
Q58|Moving the Coal-Posts: Ottawa’s Wrong Turn on Carbon Pricing for Electricity Generation|No abstract is available for this item.
Q58|Searching for carbon leaks in multinational companies|Does climate change policy cause companies to shift the location of production, thereby creating carbon leakage? We examine the impact of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) on the geographical distribution of carbon emissions within multinational companies based on data from the Carbon Disclosure Project for the period 2007- 2009. Our data includes regional emissions of 435 companies, of which 47 are subject to EU ETS regulation. We find no evidence that the EU ETS has induced a displacement of carbon emissions from Europe towards the rest of the world. Our results suggest that claims that the EU ETS would cause carbon leakage might have been exaggerated.
Q58|Think global, act local! A mechanism for global commons and mobile firms|It is tricky to design local regulations on global externalities, especially so if firms are mobile. We show that when costs and outside options are firms’ private information, the threat of firm relocation leads to local regulations that are stricter, not looser. This result is general and follows because policy-driven information rents act as targeted compensations to firms that can efficiently limit the externality. The optimal mechanism supplements this strict local regulation with a looser opt-in scheme, creating a global cap for externalities for a subset of firms. We illustrate the magnitude of these effects by providing a quantification of the optimal mechanism for the key sectors in the EU emissions trading system.
Q58|EU ETS and the new green paradox|With the new rules of the EU ETS, involving cancellation of allowances, cumulative emissions are no longer fixed but depending on the market outcome. Perino (2018) showed that additional abatement effort can reduce cumulative emissions if it occurs within a few years. This article shows that Perino’s result will be reversed, i.e., cumulative emissions increase, if the abatement effort is at a later year, or permanent. Thus, a new green paradox has emerged.
Q58|Equilibrium Trade in Automobile Markets|We introduce a computationally tractable dynamic equilibrium model of the automobile market where new and used cars of multiple types (e.g. makes/models) are traded by heterogeneous consumers. Prices and quantities are determined endogenously to equate supply and demand for all car types and vintages, along with the ages at which cars are scrapped. The model allows for transactions costs, taxes, flexible specifications of car characteristics, consumer preferences, and heterogeneity. We apply the model to two examples: a revenue-neutral replacement of the new vehicle registration tax with a higher fuel tax and a hypothetical “merger to monopoly” in an oligopolistic new car market. We show substantial gains in consumer welfare from the tax policy change, as well as important effects on government revenues, automobile prices, driving, fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions, while the merger leads to substantial welfare losses.
Q58|Environmental policy and firm selection in the open economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
Q58|Correct Me If You Can - Optimal Non-Linear Taxation of Internalities|A growing literature has shown that behavioral biases influence consumer choices. Such so-called internalities are ubiquitous in many settings, including energy efficiency investments and the consumption of sin goods, such as cigarettes and sugar. In this paper, we use a mechanism design approach to characterize the optimal non-linear tax (or subsidy) for correcting behaviorally biased consumers. We demonstrate that market choices are informative about consumers’ bias, which can be exploited for benevolent price discrimination via a non-linear tax schedule. We derive that such “internality revelation” depends on two sufficient statistics: the correlation between valuations and biases, as well as the signal-to-noise ratio of the bias. Furthermore, we find that there must be a minimum alignment of preferences among the designer and the consumer to ensure internality tax implementability. We contrast our results with the insights from standard non-linear income taxation and discuss that the optimal corrective tax schedule is typically convex. In addition, we apply our findings to the light bulb market and determine the optimal non-linear subsidy for energy efficiency.
Q58|Carbon Taxes and Stranded Assets: Evidence from Washington State|The climate challenge requires ambitious climate policy. A sudden increase in carbon prices can lead to major shocks to the stock market. Some assets will lose part of their value, others all of it, and hence become “stranded”. If the markets are not ready to absorb the shock, a financial crisis could follow. How well investors anticipate, and thus how large these shocks may be, is an empirical question. We analyze stock market reactions to the rejection of two carbon tax initiatives by voters in Washington state. We build proper counterfactuals for Washington state firms and find that these modest policy proposals with limited jurisdiction caused substantial readjustments on the stock market, especially for carbon-intensive stocks. Our results reinforce concerns about “stranded assets” and the risk of financial contagion. Our policy implications support the inclusion of transition risks in macroprudential policymaking and carbon disclosure and climate stress tests as the main policy responses.
Q58|What Role for Electric Vehicles in the Decarbonization of the Car Transport Sector in Europe?|The transport sector is the only sector where carbon emissions continue to grow. This has led policy makers to propose ambitious policies to reduce emissions in the car sector, in particular fuel efficiency standards, portfolio mandates for Electric Vehicles and purchase taxes or subsidies. A portfolio mandate describes a minimum quota of annual electric vehicle sales. We use a two-period model for the car manufacturing sector to compare the cost efficiency of these policies. The model has gasoline fuelled cars (GV) compete with battery electric cars (EV). Both types of cars have endogenous technological progress that is triggered by environmental policies, including tradable fuel efficiency standards, portfolio mandates, carbon taxes, purchase taxes and R&D subsidies. EVs can serve as batteries that permit grid operators to shift off peak (renewable) electricity to peak hour supply. The model is calibrated to evaluate the EU policy to reduce average carbon emissions of cars by 37,5% in 2030. We assess the cost-efficiency of three types of policy instruments evaluating production costs, fuel costs, and externalities. We find that a fuel efficiency standard targeting gasoline cars achieves emission reductions at a much lower cost than a portfolio mandate for Electric cars.
Q58|A Note on Moral Licensing and Foot-In-The-Door Effect|Literature in economics and psychology on moral behaviour explores the contexts in which people act in ways that are consistent or inconsistent with their past actions. Such inconsistencies appear to violate economists' assumption of rational consumer behaviour. In this note we show that a simple model of rational (utility-maximising) consumer behaviour, in both static and dynamic forms, can explain both consistent and inconsistent behaviour.
Q58|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
Q58|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
Q58|Does Access to Health Care Mitigate Environmental Damages?|Differential access to health care is commonly cited as a source of heterogeneity in environmental health damages, yet little causal evidence exists to support such claims. We address this deficit in two settings by testing whether the negative impacts of ambient temperature exposure on mortality were mitigated by (1) access to primary care through the Community Health Center program, and (2) access to hospital care through the desegregation of Southern hospitals. The results demonstrate that increased access to health care can drive heterogeneity in environmental damages when the mode of care is sufficiently relevant to the damages suffered.
Q58|CO2-Bepreisung im Wärme- und Verkehrssektor: Erweiterung des Emissionshandels löst aktuelles Klimaschutzproblem nicht|Gegenwärtig sind die verschiedenen Energieträger in Deutschland unterschiedlich stark mit Abgaben und Umlagen belastet. Um die energie- und klimapolitischen Ziele der Bundesregierung zu erreichen, müssen fossile Heiz- und Kraftstoffe stärker bepreist werden (Kemfert et al. 2019; Dertinger und Schill 2019, SRU 2019). Zugleich herrscht in der energiepolitischen Debatte Uneinigkeit über die die Ausgestaltung einer CO2-Bepreisung. Eine Möglichkeit besteht darin, den EU-Emissionshandels (EUETS) auf die bislang nicht abgedeckten Sektoren Verkehr und Wärme europaweit, für eine Gruppe von EU-Mitgliedstaaten oder national auszuweiten. Eine weitere Option ist ein separates nationales Emissionshandelssystem für diese Sektoren einzuführen und eine dritte die Besteuerung zu reformieren, indem eine CO2-basierte Komponente in der Energiesteuer eingeführt wird. Der Sachverständigenrat zur Begutachtung der gesamtwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung (SVR) empfiehlt, den EU-ETS europaweit bis zum Jahr 2030 auf die Sektoren Verkehr und Gebäude auszuweiten sowie einen nationalen Emissionshandel oder eine CO2-Steuer als Übergangslösung zu etablieren (SVR 2019). Auch der Wissenschaftliche Beirat des Bundesministeriums für Wirtschaft und Energie (BMWi) spricht sich dafür aus, den Zertifikatehandel auszuweiten: Die Preiskorridore für die verschiedenen Sektoren sollen sich zunächst unterscheiden und mittelfristig in einem einheitlichen europäischen Emissionsmarkt zusammengeführt werden (BMWi 2019). Mit folgendem Beitrag werden unterschiedliche Optionen für eine CO2-Bepreisung beschrieben und bewertet. Dabei werden neben der ökonomischen Perspektive (statische und dynamische Effizienz sowie ökologische Effektivität) auch die juristische und politische Durchsetzbarkeit berücksichtigt.
Q58|Green Public Procurement and the Innovation Activities of Firms|This paper provides first empirical insights on the relationship between green public procurement (GPP) and firms' innovation activities. Considering that the public sector is a large buyer in the economy, public procurement is able to work as demand-pull factor for new products and thus innovations - given that the procurement is aimed at such objectives. GPP is specifically implemented to contribute to more sustainable production and consumption. Using a novel firm-level dataset, this paper analyses whether GPP is able to trigger innovation activities within firms, and if so, whether these innovations are environmental innovations or not. The results show some support for a demand-pull effect of GPP on the probability of general product innovations but no conclusive evidence is found for environmental innovations.
Q58|How Effective Was the UK Carbon Tax? — A Machine Learning Approach to Policy Evaluation|Carbon taxes are commonly seen as a rational policy response to climate change, but little is known about their performance from an ex-post perspective. This paper analyzes the emissions and cost impacts of the UK CPS, a carbon tax levied on all fossil-fired power plants. To overcome the problem of a missing control group, we propose a novel approach for policy evaluation which leverages economic theory and machine learning techniques for counterfactual prediction. Our results indicate that in the period 2013-2016 the CPS lowered emissions by 6.2 percent at an average cost of € 18 per ton. We find substantial temporal heterogeneity in tax-induced impacts which stems from variation in relative fuel prices. An important implication for climate policy is that a higher carbon tax does not necessarily lead to higher emissions reductions or higher costs.
Q58|Dirty versus Clean Firms’ Relocation under International Trade and Imperfect Competition|This paper develops a simple partial equilibrium model with two countries (North and South) to fathom the effects of firms’ relocation in a context of international and imperfect competition. Two different production technologies are considered, a clean technology and a dirty one, and the effects of relocation according to the kind of technology used by the relocated firms are determined. Two heterogeneous firms in the North and only one dirty firm in the South are assumed and the four different possible scenarios are compared: neither firm relocates, the two northern firms relocate, the clean one relocates and the dirty one relocates. This paper demonstrates that the relocation of a dirty firm as compared to the relocation of a clean firm is worse for the environment, better for northern consumers, and better for the domestic profits. Moreover, the relocation of a dirty firm always increases global emissions, while the relocation of a clean firm may decrease global emissions.
Q58|Can We Reconcile French People with the Carbon Tax? Disentangling Beliefs from Preferences|Using a new survey and National households' survey data, we investigate French perception over carbon taxation. We find that French people largely reject a tax and dividend policy where revenues of the tax would be redistributed uniformly. However, their perception about the properties of the tax are biased: people overestimate the negative impact on their purchasing power, wrongly think the scheme is regressive, and do not perceive it as environmentally effective. Our econometric analysis shows that correcting these three bias would suffice to generate majority acceptance. Yet, we find that people's beliefs are persistent and their revisions biased towards pessimism, so that only few can be convinced.
Q58|French Attitudes over Climate Change and Climate Policies|This paper aims to assess the prospects for French climate policies after the Yellow Vests crisis halted the planned increase in the carbon tax. From a large representative survey, we elicit knowledge, perceptions and values over climate change, we examine opinions relative to carbon taxation, and we assess support for other climate policies. Specific attention is given to the link between perceptions of climate change and attitudes towards policies. The paper also studies in details the determinants of attitudes in terms of political and socio-demographic variables. Among many results, we find limited knowledge but high concern for climate change. We also document a large rejection of the carbon tax but majority support for stricter norms and green investments, and reveal the rationales behind these preferences. Our study entails policy recommendations, such as an information campaign on climate change. Indeed, we find that climate awareness increases support for climate policies but no evidence for the formation of opinions through partisan cues as in the US, suggesting that better access to science could foster support for the ecology.
Q58|Ambitious Emissions Goal as a Strategic Preemption|"We model a political game where a policymaker pledges a domestic emissions goal in the context of instrument choice between carbon pricing (CP) and a quota approach. We show that, although the policymaker faces an emissions goal proposed from an international environmental agreement, she may pledge a more stringent emissions than the proposed level. We define this stringent goal as an “ambitious emissions goal"". We show that the ambitious emissions goal acts as a strategy for the policymaker that preempts the industry's lobby in a subsequent stage. We also suppose that, if CP is introduced, a rent-seeking contest for the CP revenue refund is held. Then, if the contest is socially costly enough, CP is no longer an optimal instrument. Finally, we extend the model of one country to that of two symmetric countries. A Nash equilibrium where both countries pledge the ambitious emissions goals remains."
Q58|Linking Permit Markets Multilaterally|We formally study the determinants, magnitude and distribution of efficiency gains generated in multilateral linkages between permit markets. We provide two novel decomposition results for these gains, characterize individual preferences over linking groups and show that our results are largely unaltered with strategic domestic emissions cap selection or when banking and borrowing are allowed. Using the Paris Agreement pledges and power sector emissions data of five countries which all use or considered using both emissions trading and linking, we quantify the efficiency gains. We find that the computed gains can be sizable and are split roughly equally between effort and risk sharing.
Q58|Limit pricing, climate policies, and imperfect substitution|The effects of climate policies are often studied under perfect competition and constant marginal extraction costs. In this paper, we allow for monopolistic fossil fuel supply and more general cost functions, which, in the presence of perfectly substitutable renewables, gives rise to limit-pricing behavior. Four phases of supply may exist in equilibrium: sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, simultaneous supply of fossil fuels and renewables at the limit price, and sole supply of renewables at the limit price. The consequences of climate policies for initial extraction depend on the initial phase: in case of sole supply of fossil fuels at the limit price, a renewables subsidy increases initial extraction, whereas a carbon tax leaves initial extraction unaffected. With simultaneous supply at the limit price or with sole supply of fossil fuels below the limit price, a renewables subsidy and a carbon tax lower initial extraction. Both policy instruments decrease cumulative extraction. If fossil fuels and renewables are imperfect but good substitutes, the monopolist will exhibit ‘limit-pricing resembling’ behavior, by keeping the effective price of fossil close to that of renewables for considerable time.
Q58|Taxe carbone, le retour, à quelles conditions ?|La perspective d’une reprise de la hausse de la fiscalité carbone française, suspendue en décembre 2018, s’est précisée à l’occasion du « grand débat national » et plusieurs propositions d’amélioration du dispositif existant ont été avancées dans le débat public, visant en particulier sa dimension sociale. Nous proposons à notre tour dans cet article une nouvelle fiscalité carbone, dénommée « contribution climat anti-pauvreté énergétique », que nous inscrivons dans son cadre écologique, social, juridique et politique. Nous commençons par formuler, à la lumière des trois échecs successifs de 2001, 2010 et 2018, quatre critères de réussite d’une fiscalité carbone : son efficacité écologique, sa justice sociale, sa conformité juridique et enfin son acceptabilité politique. Nous détaillons ensuite pour chaque critère les modalités que nous envisageons afin d’assurer la réussite de notre proposition. Répondant notamment aux revendications de justice sociale et d’équité fiscale du mouvement des « gilets jaunes », la fiscalité carbone que nous proposons permettrait à 50% des ménages français de recevoir plus qu’ils ne paient, les recettes additionnelles dégagées permettant de réduire considérablement la précarité énergétique qui touche des millions de Français.
Q58|Does China Fall into Poverty-Environment Traps? Evidence from Long-term Income Dynamics and Urban Air Pollution| This paper examines the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution using a joint distribution dynamics approach. This approach enables to estimate the transition process and long-run distribution and to examine the mechanisms behind the evolution process. The approach is applied to a unique panel data of CO2, SO2 and PM2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5μm) for 286 Chinese cities over the period 2002-2014. Strong persistence in the transition dynamics suggests that this convergence process may require a long time. The distribution dynamics analyses indicate that multiple equilibria are the major characteristics in the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution in China, which implies that inter-regional technology spillover may be an important way to accelerate convergence. Our results further support the existence of poverty-environmental trap in PM2.5 concentrations. Thus, new environmental models are expected to be developed to explain this new stylized fact. The findings provide strong support for taking more aggressive measures that consider income and urban environment simultaneously to reduce poverty and air pollutions together in the Chinese cities.
Q58|Emission Taxes, Feed-in Subsidies and the Investment in a Clean Technology by a Polluting Monopoly|The paper studies the use of emission taxes and feed-in subsidies for the regulation of a monopoly that can produce the same good with a technology that employs a polluting input and a clean technology. The second-best tax and subsidy are calculated solving a two-stage policy game between the regulator and the monopoly with the regulator acting as the leader of the game. We find that the second-best tax rate is the Pigouvian tax. The tax implements the efficient level of the dirty output but does not affect the total output. On the other hand, the subsidy leads to the monopoly to reduce the dirty output but also to increase the total output. This increase in total output may yield a larger net social welfare when the subsidy is used provided that the marginal cost of clean output is not very high, as a linear-quadratic specification of the model confirms. Finally, it is showed that the combination of an emission tax with a feed-in subsidy induces the firm to choose the efficient outputs, but in this case the first-best tax must be lower than the Pigouvian tax. Thus, the findings of this paper support the idea that feed-in subsidies open the possibility for improving the regulation of a polluting firm with market power.
Q58|Carbon Consumption, the Carbon-Based Ecosystem, and Output|This paper studies the effects of changes in the carbon-based ecosystem on a country's output. We propose and estimate a dynamic production model in which a country's ecosystem, as measured by its reservoir of carbon in land biomass and soils, enters explicitly as a productive input. Land use is the key endogenous decision in the model. We characterize a country's optimal land use policy given its direct effects on the ecosystem, and the indirect feedback effects from land sink absorption of atmospheric GHG concentrations. We estimate the model's land sink absorption rates and output elasticities with respect to land use, fossil fuel emissions, and land carbon stock for 162 countries. Globally, a 1% decline in a country's land carbon leads to an estimated 0.3% decline in its GDP per year, even after it optimally adjusts its land use policy. We then simulate the model to 2100 under four standard Representative Concentration Pathway scenarios. In the simulations, developed countries experience higher GDP growth by 2100 under low concentration scenarios. For these countries, GDP initially grows faster in high concentration scenarios. By 2050 it declines in high concentration scenarios but continues to grow in low ones. Developing countries, by contrast, experience higher GDP growth under high concentration scenarios throughout the century. Global growth in GDP is maximal under low to moderate GHG concentration scenarios.
Q58|Dura lex sed lex: why implementation gaps in environmental policy matter?|We investigate implementation gaps observed in environmental regulations in the specific case of dangerous chemical substances such as targeted by the REACH regulation. An agent-based model is developed as an exploratory tool to examine to what extent significant implementation gaps between stringency requirements and real but conditional enforcement jeopardize the transition to safer substitutes, by affecting the way heterogeneous actors perceive the regulatory threat and their innovation strategy. We show that the combination of the most severe regulation with the strictest enforcement and the shortest timing would not necessarily lead to the highest frequency of bans on dangerous substances, because it may alter the competitive process that is vital to preserving diversity in innovation strategies and to developing safer substitutes. Opting for a very severe regulation should be combined with concessions on enforcement in order to preserve diversity and to give green pioneering competitors enough time to expand. From a reverse angle, if authorities are keen to apply the regulation strictly and are prepared to face higher market concentration, then they should release the degree of stringency in order to enhance the prospects of transition to safer substitutes.
Q58|Nudge and tax in an environmental public goods experiment: Does environmental sensitivity matter?|An experiment is proposed in which the subjects could contribute to a public good which could be thought of as reducing pollution, which was stochastic. A nudge (announcement of the socially optimal contribution) and a tax are implemented to improve the level of contributions. The environmental sensitivity and optimism of the subjects are also elicited. Our first result shows that the implementation of the nudge does not perform as well as the implementation of the tax. The reaction to the nudge depends directly on individuals’ environmental sensitivity, contrary to the reaction to the tax. Secondly, the nudge performs well with highly sensitive subjects only during the first half of its implementation. Lastly, the efficiency analysis shows that the implementation of the nudge significantly decreases the groups’ welfare for the least sensitive subjects, in comparison to the baseline.
Q58|Environmental tax reform and income distribution with imperfect heterogeneous labour markets|This paper investigates the distributional and efficiency consequences of an environmental tax reform that distributes the revenue from a green tax according to varying labour tax rates. We build a general equilibrium model with heterogeneous workers, imperfect labour markets (search and match), and pollution consumption externalities. Preferences are non-homothetic (Stone–Geary utility) to take into account the potential regressivity of green taxes (the polluting good is assumed to be a necessary good). If the reform appears regressive, the gains from the double dividend can achieve Pareto improvement, using a redistributive non-linear income tax if the redistribution is not too great initially. Increasing progressivity influences the unemployment rate and can moderate the trade-off between equity and efficiency. We finally provide numerical illustrations for France and conduct sensitivity analysis.
Q58|The impact of flood management policies on individual adaptation actions: insights from a French case study|Floods can be managed at the collective and individual level. Knowing the interaction between measures taken at both scales can help design more efficient flood risk management policies. Here, we combine the data collected during a survey of 331 inhabitants of flood-prone areas in the South of France and spatial databases to empirically examine the interaction between individual adaptation measures and three types of collective management tools: a national insurance scheme, dikes, and zoning instruments. In line with the levee effect hypothesis, we found that dike protection reduces the probability to have or take individual adaptation measures and that this effect could be mitigated by zoning instruments. Moreover, we found that the national insurance scheme does not crowd out individual adaptation.
Q58|The impact of flood management policies on individual adaptation actions: Insights from a French case study|Floods can be managed at the collective and individual level. Knowing the interaction between measures taken at both scales can help design more efficient flood risk management policies. Here, we combine the data collected during a survey of 331 inhabitants of flood-prone areas in the South of France and spatial databases to empirically examine the interaction between individual adaptation measures and three types of collective management tools: a national insurance scheme, dikes, and zoning instruments. In line with the levee effect hypothesis, we found that dike protection reduces the probability to have or take individual adaptation measures and that this effect could be mitigated by zoning instruments. Moreover, we found that the national insurance scheme does not crowd out individual adaptation.
Q58|The Assignment of a CSR Level of Action: Rule vs Discretion|Socially responsible behaviors represent a growing concern for consumers, employees, investors. Beyond their economic impact, companies are made accountable and responsible for the social, the environmental incidence of their activities. Their governance, their processes, the security of their products and the working conditions they offer are more and more carefully examined (as, for instance, the increasing importance of the duty of vigilance for multinational enterprises). Public policies, especially through regulation, seek to avoid - or at least limit some of the negative impacts that can be related to firms' activity and choices. Yet, many drawbacks may prevent regulation from succeeding : lack of information or of expertise, capture by interest groups... In some cases, companies can even turn more efficient in making the decisions that better suit stakeholders' expectations, essentially as they may have better information about their preferences, which is an essential piece. As a by-product it is worth examining whether some decisions must be taken by regulators or should rather be delegated to firms. Through a mechanism without transfer approach in a setting involving information asymmetries, we study under which conditions the decision is best assigned to the regulator. We show that for relatively low values of the private parameter, a binding rule will be preferred, and it is even stronger when asymmetry of information is introduced w.r.t. the knowledge the firm will get from the representative stakeholder. The divergence between the decision-maker and the firm strengthens and less communication takes place, which corresponds to a lower degree of delegation granted to companies. Thus, the optimal scheme is made of a combination of a rigid policy and a more flexible one over signicant values of the private parameter.
Q58|Tradable permits to manage urban mobility: market design and experimental implementation|Congestion levels have grown substantially in recent years, while the traditional economic response to congestion – road pricing – remains politically infeasible in most locations. Tradable permits are likely to be a more viable alternative, because they do not require a net financial flow from road users to the government. It is therefore the right moment to design and empirically test tradable permit schemes for managing urban mobility. This paper presents and empirically tests a complete design of a market for tradable permits, both in terms of the conceptual set-up of the market as well as its technical implementation. The design is evaluated against a number of criteria, including: transparency and containment of transaction costs, stability of permit prices in relation to the dynamic equilibrium on the mobility market and the prevention of undesirable speculation and fraud. We present evidence of the empirical functioning of this market, using the results of a conducted lab-in-the-field experiment with virtual mobility behaviour and real financial incentives.
Q58|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the ﬁrms’ abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A ﬁrm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the ﬁrst best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet eﬀect since the low-cost ﬁrms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when ﬁrms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We ﬁnd evidence that the ﬁrms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
Q58|Environmental policy instruments and strategic restraint: caps versus taxes|In the debate about options for abatement of carbon dioxide emissions, two instruments are considered: a cap on emissions (a command-and-control instrument) and a tax on emissions (a market-based instrument). One of the arguments used in this debate is related to the political manipulation that interest-groups may promote under each of these two regulatory systems. This study compares the performance of caps and taxes when the choice of the policy-maker is sensitive to the pressure of lobbies.
Q58|What Drives Size Reductions for Protected Areas? Evidence about PADDD from across the Brazilian Amazon|Protected areas (PAs) have been the most widely used tool to conserve ecosystem services. New PAs are created every year and the effective PAs block some economic development. Yet that opportunity cost of conservation leads PAs to have isolated locations and even to suffer considerable PA degazettements, downsizings and degradation (jointly ‘PADDD’). Adding to a sparse literature on PADDD, we assess some drivers of PAs’ size reductions, i.e., degazettements and downsizings. We base our empirical efforts upon a simple model of size reductions that result from interactions between agencies with differing objectives, conservation versus development. Gradients across space for the agency benefits and costs yield predictions about where each agency is most against, or for, size reductions for PAs. Analyzing Brazilian Amazon data from a relatively new and growing global data set from PADDDtracker, we find size reductions are influenced by: distance to cities and roads, i.e., transport that affects private profits and public enforcement costs; PA size, which affects enforcement costs; and previous deforestation in a PA, which lowers impacts of PADDD.
Q58|Global Unanimity Agreement on the Carbon Budget|Carbon budgets are a useful way to frame the climate mitigation challenge and much easier to agree upon than the allocation of emissions. We propose a mechanism with countries agreeing on the global carbon budget, while the decision to emit is decentralized at the country level. The revenue is collected in a global fund and allocated according to endogenously defined 10 weights proportional to the marginal cost of climate change. The proposal features a unanimous agreement of the national citizenries of the world and global Pareto efficiency. We run a simulation in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, with zero emissions after 2055. At the Global Unanimity Equilibrium, permits are priced at 90$/tC, yielding 1.3 trillion dollars annually. Africa, India and the less developed countries in Asia are the only net recipients, while the US 15 and China are the largest net contributors.
Q58|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q58|Impact of the Saitama Prefecture Target-Setting Emissions Trading Program on the Adoption of Low-Carbon Technology|This paper investigates the impacts of the Target-Setting Emissions Trading (TSET) Program launched by Saitama Prefecture in Japan in 2011 on the adoption of low-carbon technology. Using facility-level data on the manufacturing sector, the causal relationship between implementation of the program and investment in high-efficiency equipment is estimated. The results show that the TSET Program promoted the adoption of high-efficiency machines and devices for the first three years of the second compliance period, whereas the program did not spur investments in high-efficiency equipment during the first compliance period. These results suggest that the manufacturing facilities may have adopted relatively cheaper emissions reduction plans in the first compliance period such as improvements to equipment they already owned, whereas in the second compliance period, when the emissions targets became stricter, they allocated money and resources to introduce high-efficiency equipment. These findings indicate that the TSET Program succeeded in encouraging emissions reduction efforts by facilities in the manufacturing sector covered by the scheme, even though the program lacks penalties for noncompliance.
Q58|Climate Risk and Beliefs: Evidence from New York Floodplains|Applying a difference-in-differences framework to a census of residential property transactions in New York City 2003-2017, we estimate the price effects of three flood risk signals: 1) the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act, which increased premiums; 2) Hurricane Sandy; and 3) new floodplain maps reflecting three decades of climate change. Estimates are negative for all three signals and some are large: properties included in the new floodplain after escaping flooding by Sandy experienced 18 percent price reductions. We investigate possible mechanisms, including selection of properties into the market and residential sorting. Finding no evidence for these, we develop a parsimonious theoretical model to study changes in flood beliefs. The model allows decomposition of our reduced-form estimates into the effects of insurance premium changes and belief updating. Results suggest that the new maps induced substantially larger belief changes than insurance reform.
Q58|Money Growing on Trees: A Classroom Game about Payments for Ecosystem Services and Tropical Deforestation|Payments for ecosystem service programs use a market-based approach to pursue environmental goals. While they are common policy tools, key concepts that can determine their efficacy are nuanced and hard to grasp. We present a new interactive game that explores the functioning and implications of payments for ecosystem service programs. Participants play the role of rural households in a developing country. They decide individually or as groups whether to enter into contracts to receive payment from the United Nations REDD+ program to refrain from harvesting from a local forest. The game explores topics including: payments for ecosystem services programs; climate change; tropical deforestation; cost-effectiveness; additionality; contract fraud and enforcement; and community resource management. We provide customizable materials, a detailed reading list, and prompts for discussion.
Q58|Discretionary Exemptions from Environmental Regulation: Flexibility for Good or for Ill|"We develop a model of firm and regulator behavior to examine theoretically the use and consequences of discretionary exemptions (also known as variances, waivers, or exceptions) in environmental regulation. Many environmental protection laws, such as the Clean Water Act, impose limits on harmful activities yet include ""safety valve"" provisions giving the regulator discretion to grant full or partial exemptions that provide permanent or temporary relief from these limits. This discretion begets flexibility over the stringency of environmental protection laws. Our model places a profit-maximizing discharger of pollution under the purview of a fully informed regulator who may seek to maximize social welfare by imposing limits. We show that when a regulation does not otherwise allow flexibility, an exemption that relaxes the limit for firms with high abatement costs can improve social welfare by reducing the costs of achieving the given level of environmental quality. We further demonstrate that if the effectiveness of abatement technology improves over time, a temporary exemption can increase social welfare by adjusting allowable pollution in response to these dynamic conditions. We also show that if the labor market is sticky, exemptions can benefit workers. Driven by an unequally weighted social welfare function, the regulator may use exemptions to meet redistributive ends. However, these beneficial impacts of exemptions rely on a fully informed and benevolent regulator; otherwise, the discretionary nature of exemptions leaves them open to abuse. A regulator who is captured by industry, focused only on her own jurisdiction or answerable only to a set of elites, can abuse exemptions in ways that reduce social welfare, such as allowing inefficiently high pollution or inducing a cost-ineffective pattern of abatement."
Q58|Effective Climate Policy Doesn’t Have to be Expensive| We compare the effectiveness of different climate policies in terms of emissions abatement and costs in the British and German electricity markets. The two countries follow different climate policies, allowing us to compare the effectiveness of a relatively low EU ETS carbon price in Germany with a significantly higher carbon price due to a unilateral top-up tax (the Carbon Price Support) in the UK. We first estimate the emissions offsetting effects of carbon pricing and of subsidized wind and solar feed-in, and then derive the abatement costs of one tonne of CO2 for the different policies. We find that a reasonably high price for emissions is the most cost-effective climate policy, while subsidizing wind is preferable to subsidizing solar power. A carbon price of around EURO 35 is enough in the UK to induce vast short-run fuel switching between coal- and gas-fired power plants, leading to significant emissions abatement at low costs.
Q58|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q58|"Can APPealing and more informative bills ""nudge"" individuals into conserving electricity?"|We use a field experiment on energy billing in a German region to evaluate the effect of two behavioral nudges (consumption feedback and social comparison) on electricity consumption. Similar experiments have revealed significant treatment effects, yet the individual variance has proven to be substantial. On grounds of these heterogeneous treatment effects and the possibility of cross-country behavioral differences, additional experiments are warranted. For our German participants with low pretreatment consumption compared to many other countries, we find no treatment effects. From this, we deduce that the effect of consumption feedback and social comparison is highly context dependent.
Q58|Environmental Policy and Firm Selection in the Open Economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions fall, due to both a scale and a technique effect, but we show that the reduction in emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
Q58|CO2-orientierte Bepreisung der Energieträger - Handlungsoptionen, Kompensationsmöglichkeiten und ihre rechtlichen Rahmenbedingungen|Der klimapolitische Handlungsdruck hat eine Instrumentendiskussion entfacht. So plausibel die Forderung nach CO2-Bepreisung der Energieträger zu sein scheint, so heterogen ist das Spektrum möglicher Regelungsansätze. Die Vielzahl wirtschaftspolitischer Empfehlungen hat den Rechtsrahmen, in dem sich die Instrumentendiskussion bewegt, bislang kaum in den Blick genommen. Dieser Beitrag diskutiert Möglichkeiten und Grenzen der Instrumente nach Maßgabe der steuer-, haushalts-, finanzverfassungs- und europarechtlichen Vorgaben. Es zeigt sich, dass die aktuell diskutierten Reformschritte zur CO2-Bepreisung überwiegend im Einklang mit den Rechtsrahmen ausgestaltet werden könnten. Bei den Kompensationsmaßnahmen verengen sich die zur Verfügung stehenden Optionen unter rechtlichen und praktischen Gesichtspunkten.
Q58|Policies as information carriers: How environmental policies may change beliefs and consequent behavior|This paper discusses how policy interventions not only alter the legal and financial framework in which an individual is operating, but can also lead to changes in relevant beliefs. We argue that such belief changes in how an individual perceives herself, relevant others, the regulator and/or the activity in question can lead to behavioral changes that were neither intended nor expected when the policy was designed. In the environmental economics literature, these secondary impacts of conventional policy interventions have not been systematically reviewed. Hence, we intend to raise awareness of these effects. In this paper, we review relevant research from behavioral economics and psychology, and identify and discuss the domains for which beliefs can change. Lastly, we discuss design options with which an undesired change in beliefs can be avoided when a new policy is put into practice.
Q58|Cap-and-Trade Policy vs. Carbon Taxation: Of Leakage and Linkage|We assess a 2-period, non-cooperative equilibrium of an n country policy game where countries chose either (i) carbon taxes, (ii) cap-and-trade policy with local permit markets or (iii) cap-and-trade policy with internationally linked permit markets and potential central redistribution of permit revenues. Policy makers maximizes welfare, which depends on household consumption over time and environmental damage from period-1 resource use. We assume costless and complete extraction of this non-renewable resource, so damage only depends on speed of extraction. Tax policy is the least efficient option due to carbon leakage, which introduces a second externality adding to the environmental externality. Cap-and-trade policy does not show any leakage since all symmetric countries will employ caps. Its equilibrium thus only suffers from the environmental externality and welfare is higher than under carbon taxation. The policy scenario with linked permit markets and central redistribution yields an efficient outcome. The redistribution of revenues creates a negative externality which offsets the positive environmental externality.
Q58|Do sustainable energy policies matter for reducing greenhouse gas emissions?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q58|"Can APPealing and more informative bills ""nudge"" individuals into conserving electricity?"|We use a field experiment on energy billing in a German region to evaluate the effect of two behavioral nudges (consumption feedback and social comparison) on electricity consumption. Similar experiments have revealed significant treatment effects, yet theindividual variance has proven to be substantial. On grounds of these heterogeneous treatment effects and the possibility of cross-country behavioral differences, additional experiments are warranted. For our German participants with low pre-treatment consumption compared to many other countries, we find no treatment effects. From this, we deduce that the effect of consumption feedback and social comparison is highly context dependent.
Q58|Environmental policy and firm selection in the open economy|In this paper, we analyse the effects of a unilateral change in an emissions tax in a model of international trade with heterogeneous firms. We find a positive effect of tighter environmental policy on average productivity in the reforming country through reallocation of labour towards exporting firms. Domestic aggregate emissions fall, due to both a scale and a technique effect, but we show that the reduction in emissions following the tax increase is smaller than in autarky. Moreover, general equilibrium effects through changes in the foreign wage rate lead to a reduction in foreign emissions and, hence, to negative emissions leakage in case of transboundary pollution.
Q58|Implementing result-based agri-environmental payments by means of modelling|From a theoretical point of view, result-based agri-environmental payments are clearly preferable to action-based payments. However, they suffer from two major practical disadvantages: costs of measuring the results and payment uncertainty for the participating farmers. In this paper, we propose an alternative design to overcome these two disadvantages by means of modelling (instead of measuring) the results. We describe the concept of model-informed result-based agri-environmental payments (MIRBAP), including a hypothetical example of payments for the protection and enhancement of soil functions. We offer a comprehensive discussion of the relative advantages and disadvantages of MIRBAP, showing that it not only unites most of the advantages of result-based and action-based schemes, but also adds two new advantages: the potential to address trade-offs among multiple policy objectives and management for long-term environmental effects. We argue that MIRBAP would be a valuable addition to the agri-environmental policy toolbox and a reflection of recent advancements in agri-environmental modelling.
Q58|Do voluntary environmental programs reduce emissions? EMAS in the German manufacturing sector|Voluntary environmental management programs for firms have become an increasingly popular instrument of environmental policy. However, the literature's conclusion on the effectiveness of such programs is ambiguous, and for the European region there is a lack of evidence based on a large control group. We seek to fill this gap with an evaluation of the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), introduced in 1995 by the European Union as a premium certification of continuous pro-environmental efforts above regulatory minimum standards. It is more demanding than other voluntary programs due to annual public reports of the environmental performance and targets for improvements. We use official firm-level production census data on the German manufacturing sector, a major energy consumer and emitter in Europe. To account for the self-selection of firms, we combine the Coarsened Exact Matching approach with a Difference-in-Differences estimation. Our results do not suggest reductions of firms' CO2 intensity and energy intensity neither before nor after certification. Moreover, program participants do not increase renewable energy consumption or investments into the protection of the environment and climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks and call into question the effectiveness of the EMAS program concerning these particular outcome variables.
Q58|State mandates on renewable heating technologies and the housing market|We study the effect of a state level mandate on renewable heating technologies on the housing market. The mandate requires a minimum share of 10 % renewable energy sources when changing the heating system in the existing building stock. As renewable energy sources are still more expensive than conventional alternatives this mandate could lower the relative price of homes in the existing building stock when a replacement of the heating system is impending. We implement a two stage difference-in-differences nearest neighbor matching approach to identify the effect on prices taking advantage of differences in regulation by location and vintage of the building stock. Our results find no evidence of an effect of the mandate on housing prices.
Q58|How marginal is lignite? Two simple approaches to determine price-setting technologies in power markets|The parameterisation of energy and climate policies often depends on the technology, which is price-setting in electricity markets. We propose two simple approaches to determine marginal technologies in electricity wholesale from available data. Both approaches are complementary, computationally lightweight, and do not require specific software. Identification is based upon assumptions which are commonly used in more complex energy system models and which vary according to the approach. We illustrate the relevance of our approach for consistent policy parameterization with an example from the compensation scheme for indirect emission costs from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). We find that the current policy design severely overweighs CO2 emissions from lignite power plants in the CWE power market.
Q58|Environmental innovation and firm profitability: An analysis with respect to firm size|This paper investigates the effect of environmental innovations on firm profitability with respect to differences between small and medium-sized (SME) and large (LE) enterprises. Using data from the Mannheim Innovation Panel (MIP) 2015, results show that, in general, SME benefit more from environmental innovations than LE. This effect is particularly strong for resource efficiency-improving innovations induced by regulation. These environmental innovations are significantly related to an increase in profits of SME, whilst related to a decrease in profits of LE. A robustness check with data from the MIP 2009, however, does not confirm this result as the effect for LE is insignificant and differences between the two groups cannot be found in this survey wave. A reason why negative effects for LE are observed in the MIP 2015 - but not in the MIP 2009 - might be that most LE had already exploited the potentials of environmental innovations when they were surveyed in the MIP 2015. This is supported by evidence suggesting that size-related differences in the MIP 2015 are driven by a negative relationship between LE's profits and environmental innovations related to externalities that were reduced by innovations in periods before.
Q58|The informational value of environmental taxes|We propose informational spillovers as a new rationale for the use of multiple policy instruments to mitigate a single externality. We investigate the design of a pollution standard when the firms' abatement costs are unknown and emissions are taxed. A firm might abate pollution beyond what is required by the standard by equalizing its marginal abatement costs to the tax rate, thereby revealing information about its abatement cost. We analyze how a regulator can take advantage of this information to design the standard. In a dynamic setting, the regulator relaxes the initial standard in order to induce more information revelation, which would allow her to set a standard closer to the first best in the second period. Updating standards, though, generates a ratchet effect since the low-cost firms might strategically hide their cost by abating no more than required by the standard. We provide conditions for the separating equilibrium to hold when firms act strategically. We illustrate our theoretical results with the case of NOx regulation in Sweden. We find evidence that the firms that are taxed experience more frequent standard updates.
Q58|Optimal policies for electromobility: Joint assessment of transport and electricity distribution costs in Norway|We observe a rapidly rising share of the passenger car fleet becoming electric as policy makers keep making the purchase and use of electric vehicles (EVs) more favorable in the pursuit of reducing pollution. The electrification of transport will make the transport and energy systems more intertwined: EV-friendly transport policies increase the demand for power, thus challenging the distribution grid’s capacity, while electricity policies immediately impact on the generalized costs of driving EVs. This paper develops a stylized economic model for passenger transport in the greater Oslo area where the agents’ endogenous choice of car ownership, transport pattern and EV home charging is determined jointly in equilibrium. If enough EV-owning agents charge during power peak hours, costly grid expansions may be needed. We examine how the distribution grid company can respond in order to mitigate these costs with different pricing schemes and how this in turn affects the transport equilibrium. We find that applying peak tariffs for the grid will help strike a better balance between investment costs and EV-owners’ disutility of charging during off-peak hours.
Q58|EU ETS and the new green paradox|With the new rules of the EU ETS, involving cancellation of allowances, cumulative emissions are no longer fixed but depending on the market outcome. Perino (2018) showed that additional abatement effort can reduce cumulative emissions if it occurs within a few years. This article shows that Perino’s result will be reversed, i.e., cumulative emissions increase, if the abatement effort is at a later year, or permanent. Thus, a new green paradox has emerged.
Q58|Public policy failures related to China´s Wind Power Development|An anecdote about the failure of the Soviet economic system tells about a factory which were evaluated based on tons of nails produced – unsurprisingly the nails became heavy. China is currently hailed as the worlds primer wind power producer; however, a closer examination reveals a string of policy failure making the Chinese wind power development resemble the infamous Soviet nail example. From a technological transition perspective, policy failures in China's wind power program from 1980-2016 is documented and analysed. Five overarching topics are analysed including: Conflicting policies, quality problems, underwhelming technological development, lacking technological standards and insufficient grid transmission system. One conclusion is that when the Chinese government set a command and control target of how much new installed capacity that was going to be constructed the state utilities delivered to target but with an abundance of power plants without grid connectivity, severe quality problems and low technological development.
Q58|Planning on a wider scale – Swedish forest owners’ preferences for landscape policy attributes|A tax-fund system has been proposed to advance Swedish forest conservation. We present a choice experiment with Swedish private forest owners on preferences for attributes of a tax-fund system. Focusing on three aspects: (i) freedom to choose set-asides, (ii) equity issues, and (iii) frequency of nature inventories, we find two groups of forest owners. The first is opposed to interventions that could curtail liberty and oppose frequent nature inventories, while a smaller group would derive positive utility from joint decision-making. A tax-fund system would need to be designed in a participatory manner to reconcile forest owners, forest industry, and conservationists.
Q58|Forest owner objectives typologies: instruments for each owner type or instruments for most owner types?|The extensive literature on non-industrial private forest owner typologies often assumes that different forest owner types will respond to different policy instruments according to shared forest ownership objectives. Forest owner typologies using principal component analysis and subsequent k-means clustering techniques are now prolific. The surprisingly little empirical work linking forest owner objectives typologies with forest owner opinions or experiences of different policy instruments, however, shows ambiguous support for recommended targeting efforts. This study uses standard tools of analysis to investigate the relationship between private forest owners’ ownership objectives and their opinions on forest conservation policy instruments. Results show some statistically significant, but in absolute terms weak relationships between ownership objectives and Sweden’s command and control green tree retention measures, participation in voluntary forest stewardship certification, acceptance of a hypothetical financial incentive, and overall interest in taking more environmentally beneficial forest management measures. These results suggest the benefits of targeting different kinds of instruments to different kinds of ownership objectives may be limited.
Q58|Decarbonization And Energy Policy Instruments In The Eu: Does Carbon Pricing Prevail?|The issue of instrument choice is vital for climate policy. Carbon pricing is used next to a range of traditional energy taxes and renewable energy policies such as feed-in tariffs and minimal renewable generation targets. Several countries introduced carbon taxes alongside existing energy taxes such as excise duties on vehicle fuels. Since 2005, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) has attached a direct price to the GHG emissions of ETS companies. The combination of multiple instruments and explicit and indirect carbon price signals created a complex and frequently changing institutional landscape that blurs the contribution of each policy instrument. Can the decarbonization of the European economy be attributed to carbon price instruments or to renewable energy policies together with other fiscal instruments? This paper clarifies the relative impact of explicit carbon price instruments (carbon taxes and EU ETS) compared to other instruments, namely renewable energy policies and indirect carbon price signals (general energy taxes). The methodology is based on the calculation of the implicit carbon price in existing fiscal systems. On the basis of panel data for 30 European countries 1995–2016, several fixed-effect regression estimations were performed. The results indicate a greater but decreasing impact of price instruments on carbon intensity compared to renewable energy policies and a greater but decreasing relative impact of indirect price signals compared to explicit ones.
Q58|Externalities, entry bias and optimal subsidy policy in oligopoly|This article analyses alternative subsidy schemes and long-run entry bias in a new industry that creates positive environmental externalities. It demonstrates that per unit subsidy scheme, despite attracting fewer firms, results in higher industry output and economic surplus in the equilibrium compared to the expenditure equivalent lump-sum subsidy scheme. However, the later leads to higher total surplus, unless spill-over externalities is sufficiently small. Further, free entry equilibrium number of firms may be excessive or insufficient. The first best equilibrium outcome can be implemented through a unique combination of per unit subsidy and lump sum subsidy/tax, which involves positive government expenditure.
Q58|“The Political Economy of the Paris Agreement. Income Inequality and Climate Policy”|We empirically assess how both between-country inequality and within-country inequality relate to climate policy ambition as defined by NDC pledges of the Paris Agreement (COP21). We exploit the difference between high and low ambition targets submitted by parties to construct a climate policy ambition index. We find that both inequalities shape countries’ pledges: First, low income countries tend to be more ambitious in setting their pledges when external support is received. Second, within-country inequality is associated with (i) lower mitigation ambition in low and middle-low-income countries, and with (ii) higher mitigation ambition, although non statistically significant, for upper-high and high-income countries. Despite we cannot claim any causal mechanism, our results are discussed in terms of climate policy being a superior good in rich countries and elites benefiting from emitting economic activities in poorer countries
Q58|Something in the Pipe: Flint Water Crisis and Health at Birth|Flint changed its public water source in 2014, causing severe water contamination. We estimate the effect of in utero exposure to polluted water on health at birth using the recent Flint water crisis as a natural experiment. Matching vital statistics birth records with various sources of data, we employ a Difference-in-Differences (DID) approach as well as a Synthetic Control Method (SCM) to identify its causal impact on key birth outcomes. Our results suggest that the crisis modestly increased the rate of low birth weight (LBW) by 1.1-1.8 percentage points but had little effect on length of gestation or prematurity. The effects are larger for black or less educated mothers. Children born to disadvantaged mothers demonstrated 1.2-2.0 percentage points (or 10.4-17.4 percent) and 0.2- 0.6 percentage points (or 9.5-28.6 percent) rise in LBW and VLBW, respectively. We find little evidence that the Crisis increased fetal death, suggesting that the scarring effect in utero may dominate the channel of mortality selection. These results survive a rich set of placebo and falsification tests. Finally, our results lend support to three mechanisms at work linking water contamination and birth outcomes, i.e. biological effect, maternal stress, and avoidance actions.
Q58|Air Pollution During Pregnancy and Birth Outcomes in Italy|We investigate the impact of fetal exposure to air pollution on health outcomes at birth in Italy in the 2000s combining information on mother’s residential location from birth certificates with information on PM10 concentrations from air quality monitors. The potential endogeneity deriving from differential pollution exposure is addressed by exploiting as-good-as-random variation in rainfall shocks as an instrumental variable for air pollution concentrations. Our results show that both average levels of PM10 and days above the hazard limit have detrimental effects on birth weight, duration of gestation as well as overall health status at birth. These effects are mainly driven by pollution exposure during the third trimester of pregnancy and further differ in size with respect to the maternal socio-economic status, suggesting that babies born to socially disadvantaged mothers are more vulnerable. Given the non negligible effects of pollution on birth outcomes, further policy efforts are needed to fully protect fetuses from the adverse effects of air pollution and to mitigate the environmental inequality of health at birth.
Q58|Residential Noise Exposure and Health: Evidence from Aviation Noise and Birth Outcomes|Exploiting recent concentration of flight patterns under a new Federal Aviation Administration policy (called NextGen), we examine the impact of exposure to excessive noise levels on birth outcomes. Using birth records that include mothers’ home addresses to measure airport proximity, we find the risk of low birth weight babies increases by 17 percent among mothers living near the airport in the direction of the runway. We utilize exogenous variation in noise exposure triggered by NextGen, which unintentionally increased noise in communities affected by the new flight patterns. Our finding informs policy-makers regarding the trade-off between flight optimization and human health.
Q58|In and beyond the locality : policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China|This article investigates the interaction process between policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China, focusing on the case of the Huai River Basin. Since the 1970s, rural communities in the basin have suffered from persistent water pollution health hazards. Through a critical review of the interactions between policy and practices, this article reveals how these two approaches coevolved in the cooperative sphere, that is, a quasi-public sphere under fragmented authoritarianism in China supported by the state, media and environmental non-governmental organizations to address the ecological disaster in and beyond the basin. Additionally, a disconnect between practices in the locality and the policy beyond it can be observed as another side of fragmentation in the field of environment and health issues. Grassroots “micropolitics” such as dialogue, negotiation, cooperation with polluters and local authorities, and innovation as an alternative to the official public work based on social and ecological knowledge are examined to overcome this fragmentation.
Q58|The equivalence of emission tax with tax-revenue refund and emission intensity regulation|This study examines policies balancing emissions reduction and promotion of consumption. We show the equivalence of emission intensity regulation coupled with tradable emission permits and the combination of an emission tax and refunding of the tax revenue to consumers.
Q58|Burden of Inspection Costs and Effectiveness of Environmental Regulations|Using a laboratory experimental approach, this study examines the effect of institutional changes in the responsibility for paying inspection costs for environmental regulations on the behavior of polluters and authorities. In particular, we compare two schemes: one is that authorities always bear the inspection cost and the other is that polluters bear the cost in a given situation. We find that polluters comply with regulations more frequently in the latter than the former scheme, while the inspection behavior of authorities does not change significantly. Moreover, the cost-bearing change in the scheme induces income redistribution between polluters and authorities (pollutees or society). In addition, we introduce uncertainty about the occurrence of environmental damage, and find that the frequency of inspection is greater in the latter than the former scheme. Because both inspection and compliance costs increase, total payoff may decrease by the partial shift of responsibility for inspection cost from authorities to polluters.
Q58|Sustainable Finance for Sustainable Development|The paper explores how ethical and sustainable oriented finance is key to reach sustainable development by tackling environmental risk through green finance and showing empirical evidence on the link between finance and inequality. The theory provided puts in the right mind frame to analyze markets, intermediaries and instruments with a sustainable lens to focus on the benefits that have brought to sustainable development. A discussion is presented between different intermediaries and highlights the benefits of cooperative banks especially the close relationship of customers and bank and the resilience it gives to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in difficult times. Different investments strategies are discussed walking through the evolution of Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and diving into the ESG analysis to use as criteria to allocate investments based on environmental, social and governance principles. Microfinance is introduced as a different market that has reached the people at the bottom of the pyramid and highlights the key role it will play to bring financial inclusion. Islamic finance and Fintech are also discussed. Different instruments are presented to understand the current landscape of how different investors are using innovative products to attack social and environmental problems. Finally, five different ways are presented on how policies can strengthen and support sustainable development arguing that the most important is by promoting sustainable footprint certification.
Q58|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy: Normative Assessment and Positive Prognosis|There is widespread agreement among economists--and a diverse set of other policy analysts--that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap-and-trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.
Q58|The optimal carbon tax with an endogenous chance of a tipping climate|This paper describes an integrated assessment model with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. The possibility of tipping leads to the following linked outcomes: a prolonged period of peak temperature; a rebound in emissions prior to and during peak temperature; and a fall in the optimal carbon tax as a ratio of output prior to and during peak temperature. Although tipping can occur in any period where temperature rises to a new maximum, the optimal carbon price can be calculated from future temperature outcomes conditional on no tipping. Learning that tipping has not occurred lowers the tax.
Q58|Weighing cows and coal: Optimal taxes for methane and carbon from a tipping risk|Different optimal tax paths for short-lived methane and long-lived carbon arise in a cost-benefit framework with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. Tax paths are compared with a cost minimising approach where an upper-temperature limit is set. In both approaches, the weight (ratio) of methane to carbon taxes converge to the same value by the end of the peak temperature stabilisation period. Numerical results from the cost-benefit framework suggest: the optimal weight is close to the current United Nations policy of a 100-year Global Warming Potential; and the time-frame should decrease to align with the expected end of peak temperature.
Q58|Optimal climate policy with directed technical change, extensive margins and a decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|This paper extends the climate model with endogenous technology of Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012). A non-energy sector is introduced which decreases the costs of abatement by more than an order of magnitude through the extensive margin of labour, as labour can move freely between sectors. An extensive margin of research, where researchers can switch between non-energy and energy research, leads to a period of intense research in the clean sector above the long-run share and increases the power of policy to avert environmental disaster. A decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean energy rises is also considered, reflecting the increasing difficulty of integrating intermittent clean energy supply in electricity. A decreasing elasticity increases the initial optimal tax on dirty energy and therefore lowers the subsidies required to direct technical change towards clean energy.
Q58|"A comment on innovation in ""The environment and directed technical change"""|The framework used to endogenise technology growth by Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012), hereafter AABH, allows the existence of unstable equilibria and does not provide a rationale for specifying which equilibrium should apply when more than one exists. This paper: (i) suggests a rationale for choosing one corner solution used in AABH that constitutes a lower bound for the subsidy or tax required to direct clean research; (ii) argues against use of the other corner solution; and (iii) provides an alternative equilibrium that constitutes an upper bound to the policy required. The alternative methods can produce substantially different results when the elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs is high.
Q58|Evidence for and modelling of a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|A review of the literature indicates a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean inputs rises. In the power sector, which is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, integrating intermittent clean energy supply becomes increasingly difficult as the clean share rises. This paper describes a simple structural model of electricity generation which: demonstrates how the elasticity falls as the clean share rises; can replicate the range of results from the electricity literature; considers the effects of storage, and; facilitates estimation of a suitable production function. A bimodal production function with two elasticity regimes - an elasticity above 8 up to a 50 to 70 per cent clean share and an elasticity below 3 beyond this share – can replicate results well from the structural model.
Q58|Cooperation in the climate commons|This paper surveys the existing empirical evidence on the scope for cooperation in the climate commons and on the effectiveness of possible interventions to spur it. Given the global public good properties of climate change mitigation, mitigation efforts have to rely on the willingness of individuals to contribute voluntarily to this public good, by reducing the demand on the environmental commons either in the form of ‘green’ consumer behaviour or through the acceptance of costly climate policy. Both are likely to be necessary. The authors survey evidence that suggests a central role for local social norms in the provision of global public goods. They discuss the importance of the visibility of norms and the role of beliefs when such visibility is lacking, concluding that some actors may behave as conditional cooperators when confronted with global dilemmas, similarly to what takes place in the local commons.
Q58|RIS3 in macro-regional strategies: tools to design and monitor integrated territorial development paths|Building on the broad and diverse picture of strategic interventions on regions' re-search and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (RIS3) and on macro-regional strategies, this paper outlines a comparative framework to analyse regions' RIS3 priorities (to outline the intended development path that regions aim at) and socioeconomic condi-tions (to describe the structural features, as they emerge from Eurostat data). The paper integrates results developed in two companion papers, by Pavone et al. (2018) and by Pagliacci et al. (2018), thus providing a multidimensional perspective on similarity across regions. Identifying which are the similarities is essential in a comparative analysis that aims to measure and monitor the impact of integrated investments on the development of the territory across sectors. Implications of the methodology proposed in the paper are discussed with suggestions for policy makers.
Q58|Poverty and Social Exclusion in the European Union: SouthEastern Territorial Patterns|Despite the ambitious goals of promoting inclusive growth in the Europe 2020 strategy, the number of people at risk of poverty in European Union is still growing. The paper moves from the hypothesis that poverty may show distinctive social patterns, which couple with a given spatial dimension and therefore can be defined as a spatially heterogeneous phenomenon at both national and sub-national level. Using the available data from Eurostat on income and living conditions (EUSILC) at NUTS2 level, the paper highlights the different territorial patterns in shaping the risk of exclusion across the EU regions. Focusing on the regions of the Southern and Eastern peripheral EU Member States (MSs), the paper outlines the differences emerging from the results achieved by the EU MSs in applying the Europe 2020 Strategy. Moreover, it deepens the analysis of the poverty drivers at the regional level. The paper shows that the peripheral countries of EU are more vulnerable to poverty but different patterns emerge when comparing Mediterranean and Eastern countries, especially with regard to the material deprivation and the drivers influencing poverty and risk of exclusion.
Q58|The Contrasting Importance of Quality of Life and Quality of Business for Domestic and International Migrants|We examine whether bilateral regional migration flows are driven by the city’s quality of life (QL) or quality of business (QB). The QL and QB measures are constructed using (quality-adjusted) rents and wages in each city. QL and QB reflect the willingness to pay of households and firms, respectively, for local amenities. The measures are constructed for 31 urban areas in New Zealand using five-yearly census data covering 1986 to 2013. We adopt a gravity model of regional migration – augmented by destination and origin QL and QB – to model bilateral flows of working-age migrants (post tertiary education and pre-retirement age). We also model flows between urban and rural areas and flows for the urban areas to and from overseas locations. We find different attractors for international versus domestic migrants according to the type of city amenity. International migrants are more attracted to cities with productive amenities whereas domestic migrants are more attracted to places with consumption amenities. Thus, in deciding on the type of city amenity to enhance, city officials implicitly choose the type of migrant that they attract as well as the type of city that may result.
Q58|A Community of Practice for Economic Modelling of Climate Change Mitigation in New Zealand|The public and private sectors face important strategic decisions about low-emissions transitional pathways. Such decisions require sound evidence, with input from experts and stakeholders across the board. Models can be used for evidence-based decision-making, but New Zealand has shortcomings in its capacity for climate policy analysis, particularly in comparison with other jurisdictions. These deficiencies pose a serious risk to New Zealand’s future economic development. Climate policy analysis requires assessing a wide range of factors. A multi-model approach supported by multiple providers improves consistency, coordination, and collaboration across members of the modelling community, users of modelling results, and funders of modelling. This document summarises the compelling case for developing a New Zealand ‘Climate Policy Modelling Initiative’ (CPMI). This initiative would coordinate and enhance delivery of modelling across multiple providers. This work is informed by several workshops that brought together economic modellers from a range of organisations. If supported by government leadership and commitment, the CPMI would have a transformational effect on New Zealand’s capacity to plan for a successful low-emissions future.
Q58|The Efficiency and Distributional Effects of Alternative Residential Electricity Rate Designs|Electricity tariffs typically charge residential users a volumetric rate that covers the bulk of energy, transmission, and distribution costs. The resulting prices, charged per unit of electricity consumed, do not reflect marginal costs and vary little across time and space. The emergence of distributed energy resources—such as solar photovoltaics and energy storage—has sparked interest among regulators and utilities in reforming electricity tariffs to enable more efficient utilization of these resources. The economic pressure to redesign electricity rates is countered by concerns of how more efficient rate structures might impact different socioeconomic groups. We analyze the bill impacts of alternative rate plans using interval metering data for more than 100,000 customers in the Chicago, Illinois area. We combine these data with granular Census data to assess the incidence of bill changes across different socioeconomic groups. We find that low-income customers would face bill increases on average in a transition to more economically efficient electricity tariffs. However, we demonstrate that simple changes to fixed charges in two-part tariffs can mitigate these disparities while preserving all, or the vast majority, of the efficiency gains. These designs rely exclusively on observable information and could be replicated by utilities in many geographies across the U.S.
Q58|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the world's most extensive rainforest, where Brazil's federal government issued a ‘Priority List’ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using ‘changes-in-changes’ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
Q58|Pigou Creates Losers: On the Implausibility of Achieving Pareto Improvements from Efficiency-Enhancing Policies|Economic theory predicts that efficiency-enhancing policy changes can be made to benefit everyone through the use of lump-sum transfers that compensate anyone initially harmed by the change. Precise targeting of compensating transfers, however, may not be possible when agents are heterogeneous and the planner faces constraints on the design of transfers. In this paper, I derive a necessary condition for an efficiency-enhancing policy to create a Pareto improvement that can be tested directly with data. The condition relates the size of efficiency gains to the degree of predictability between initial burdens and variables used to determine a transfer scheme. The main empirical application is to a gasoline tax to correct carbon emissions, with related results for other sin taxes also presented. Results indicate that it is infeasible to create a Pareto improvement from the taxation of these goods, and moreover that plausible policies are likely to leave a large fraction of households as net losers. The paper argues that the existence of these losers is relevant to policy design and may help explain the political challenges faced by many efficient policies. The paper concludes with several extensions related to this political economy motivation.
Q58|Long-Run Environmental Accounting in the U.S. Economy|This paper estimates an augmented measure of national output inclusive of environmental pollution damage in the United States economy over a 60-year period. The paper reports two primary findings. First, air pollution intensity declined precipitously from the 1950s to the modern era. Air pollution damage comprised roughly 30 percent of output in the post WWII economy, declining to under 10 percent in 2016. Second, accounting for pollution damage significantly affects growth rates. Prior to the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970, GDP outpaced Environmentally-Adjusted Value Added (EVA), defined as GDP less air pollution damage. Following passage of the Act, EVA grew more rapidly than GDP. Macroeconomic and environmental policies, as well as the business cycle, appreciably affect damages and EVA growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q58|The Future of U.S. Carbon-Pricing Policy|There is widespread agreement among economists – and a diverse set of other policy analysts – that at least in the long run, an economy-wide carbon pricing system will be an essential element of any national policy that can achieve meaningful reductions of CO2 emissions cost-effectively in the United States. There is less agreement, however, among economists and others in the policy community regarding the choice of specific carbon-pricing policy instrument, with some supporting carbon taxes and others favoring cap and trade mechanisms. This prompts two important questions. How do the two major approaches to carbon pricing compare on relevant dimensions, including but not limited to efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and distributional equity? And which of the two approaches is more likely to be adopted in the future in the United States? This paper addresses these questions by drawing on both normative and positive theories of policy instrument choice as they apply to U.S. climate change policy, and draws extensively on relevant empirical evidence. The paper concludes with a look at the path ahead, including an assessment of how the two carbon-pricing instruments can be made more politically acceptable.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q58|Welfare Costs of Catastrophes: Lost Consumption and Lost Lives|"Most of the literature on the economics of catastrophes assumes that such events cause a reduction in the stream of consumption, as opposed to widespread fatalities. Here we show how to incorporate death in a model of catastrophe avoidance, and how a catastrophic loss of life can be expressed as a welfare-equivalent drop in wealth or consumption. We examine how potential fatalities affect the policy interdependence of catastrophic events and ""willingness to pay"" (WTP) to avoid them. Using estimates of the ""value of a statistical life"" (VSL), we find the WTP to avoid major pandemics, and show it is large (10% or more of annual consumption) and partly driven by the risk of macroeconomic contractions. Likewise, the risk of pandemics significantly increases the WTP to reduce consumption risk. Our work links the VSL and consumption disaster literatures."
Q58|Jobs and Environmental Regulation|Political debates around environmental regulation often center around the effect of policy on jobs. Opponents decry the “job-killing” EPA and proponents point to “green jobs” as a positive policy outcome. And beyond the political debates, Congress requires the EPA to evaluate “potential losses or shifts of employment” that regulations under the Clean Air Act may cause. Yet there is a sharp disconnect between the political importance of the jobs question and the limited research on job effects of policy and general skepticism in the academic literature about the importance of those job effects for the costs and benefits of environmental regulation. In this paper, we discuss how the existing research on jobs and environmental regulations often falls short in evaluating these questions and consider recent new work that has attempted to address these problems. We provide an intuitive discussion of key questions for how job effects should enter into economic analysis of regulations. And, using an economic model from Hafstead, Williams, and Chen (2018), we evaluate a range of environmental regulations in both the short and long-run to develop a set of key stylized facts related to jobs and environmental regulations and to identify the key questions that current models can’t yet answer well.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q58|Can Pigou at the Polls Stop Us Melting the Poles?|Surveys show majority U.S. support for a carbon tax. Yet none has been adopted. Why? We study two failed carbon tax initiatives in Washington State in 2016 and 2018. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we show that Washington's real-world campaigns reduced support by 20 percentage points. Resistance to higher energy prices explains opposition to these policies in the average precinct, while ideology explains 90% of the variation in votes across precincts. Conservatives preferred the 2016 revenue-neutral policy, while liberals preferred the 2018 green-spending policy. Yet we forecast both initiatives would fail in other states, demonstrating that surveys are overly optimistic.
Q58|Output and Attribute-Based Carbon Regulation Under Uncertainty|Output-based carbon regulations—such as fuel economy standards and the rate-based standards in the Clean Power Plan—create well-known incentives to inefficiently increase output. Similar distortions are created by attribute-based regulations. This paper demonstrates that, despite these distortions, output and attribute-based standards can always yield greater expected welfare than “flat” emission standards given uncertainty in demand for output (or attributes), assuming locally constant marginal damages. For fuel economy standards, the welfare-maximizing amount of attribute or mileage-basing is likely small relative to current policy. For the electricity sector, however, an intensity standard may yield greater expected welfare than a flat standard.
Q58|Estimating the Costs and Benefits of Fuel-Economy Standards|Fuel-economy standards for new vehicles are a primary policy instrument in many countries to reduce the carbon footprint of the transportation sector. These standards have many channels of costs and benefit, impacting sales, composition, vehicle attributes, miles traveled and externalities in the new-car fleet, as well as the composition and size of the used fleet. We develop a tractable analytical framework to examine the welfare effects of fuel-economy standards, and apply it to the recent government proposal to roll back fuel-economy standards. We find that our combined, multi-market vehicle choice model implies that the proposal would increase the size of the vehicle fleet over time, and also generates smaller welfare gains than models with a less rich structure of the vehicle market, such as the one used in the analysis associated with the 2018 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) announcement. The disparities across the two models appear to result from the absence of feedback effects in the NPRM analysis. We stress the importance of instead using a multi-market vehicle choice model to provide the most accurate predictions of costs and benefits. We also derive bounds that can serve as a check on the theoretical consistency of such analyses, and that offer insights into the magnitudes of potential errors resulting from imperfect multi-market integration.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q58|Consumer Valuation of Fuel Economy: Findings from Recent Panel Studies|Engineering-based studies of energy efficiency often find that firms and consumers fail to adopt technologies that appear to provide net private benefits absent regulation. We examine the recent empirical literature on the extent to which expected future fuel costs are reflected in vehicle prices and therefore valued by consumers when making purchase decisions. These studies improve upon the prior literature due to their use of highly disaggregated panel data that allows for defensible identification strategies. These studies found that vehicle purchase prices reflect about 50 to 100 percent of future fuel expenses, assuming static consumer expectations about future gasoline prices and a discount rate of five to six percent. Recent regulatory analyses have estimated the benefits of more stringent vehicle standards implicitly assuming that no improvements in fuel economy will occur in the baseline, absent regulation. This assumption is consistent with consumers placing no value on future fuel costs when making vehicle purchase decision. The recent empirical evidence supports using a range of consumer valuation assumptions and applying this range consistently in the baseline and regulatory scenarios when modeling consumer purchase and firm investment decisions.
Q58|Navigating pathways to reform water policies in agriculture|This report offers a guide on potential reform pathways towards sustainable agriculture water use, based on a thorough review of selected past water and agriculture reforms and extensive consultation with policy experts. A theory of change is developed that emphasises the importance of flexibility in the timing and design of reform processes to achieve practical and effective policy changes. Governments should prepare future reforms, via continued research, education, and governance efforts, to help take advantage of reform opportunities when the timing is right. Five necessary conditions are identified for a successful reform process: (i) support evidence-based problem definition, objective setting and evaluations; (ii) ensure that governance and institutions are aligned with the policy change; (iii) engage stakeholders strategically and build trust; (iv) rebalance economic incentives to mitigate short run economic losses; and (v) define an adjustable smart reform sequencing that provides flexibility in the long run. These conditions are found to be necessary to implement four challenging policy changes: charging water use in agriculture; removing subsidies that negatively impact water resources, regulating groundwater use and addressing nonpoint source pollution. But the relative effort that governments need to devote to fulfilling each of the five conditions will vary depending on the policy change.
Q58|Bio-economy and the sustainability of the agriculture and food system: Opportunities and policy challenges|The bio-economy is gaining increasing prominence in the policy debate, with several countries developing bio-economy strategies to decouple economic growth from dependence on fossil fuel, as well a pathway to supporting some of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement. This report analyses the opportunities and policy challenges facing the bio-economy in transitioning to a more sustainable agro-food system. It provides an overview of national bio-economy- strategies based on a literature review and information provided by governments in response to a questionnaire.
Q58|The use of revenues from carbon pricing|The paper collects comprehensive and detailed data on what 40 OECD and G20 economies do with the revenues from carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes on energy use. It notes that constraints – which can take the form of political commitments or legal earmarks – on revenue use differ between carbon taxes, emissions trading systems, and excise taxes. Constraints are less common for excise taxes, which also raise the most revenue. Carbon tax revenues are relatively often associated with environmental tax reforms, involving reductions in personal or corporate income taxes. Revenues from emissions trading systems are frequently directed towards green spending. The results may be relevant to the political economy of ambitious carbon pricing schemes in the sense that the political expedience of choices on revenue use may depend on the amount of revenue raised.
Q58|Taxing vehicles, fuels, and road use: Opportunities for improving transport tax practice|This paper discusses the main external costs related to road transport and the design of taxes to manage them. It provides an overview of evolving tax practice in the European Union and the United States and identifies opportunities for better alignment of transport taxes with external costs. There is considerable scope for improving transport tax practice, notably by increasing the use of taxes based on road use. Distance charges offer great promise in delivering more efficient road transport. In heavily congested areas, targeted charges are a cost-effective way of reducing congestion. Fiscal objectives provide an impetus for change as improving vehicle fuel efficiency and fleet penetration of alternative fuel vehicles erode traditional tax bases, particularly those relating to fossil fuel use. A gradual shift from an energy-based approach towards distance-based transport taxes has the potential to establish a stable tax base in the road transport sector in the long run.
Q58|Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and the Impact of Online Sales|Extended producer responsibility or product stewardship is a policy approach that aims to increase waste recovery and recycling. Extended producer responsibility (EPR) systems aim to make producers responsible for the environmental impacts of their products throughout the product chain, from design to the end-of-life phase. This report focuses on free-riding of producers or retailers, which the fast expansion of online sales in recent years has been exacerbating. Online sales are creating new free-riding opportunities as consumers are able to buy more easily from sellers in other countries. These sellers often have no physical, legal entity in the country where the consumer resides, and are not registered with national or local EPR schemes.
Q58|Evaluating the Impact of Urban Road Pricing on the Use of Green Transport Modes: The Case of Milan|The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of congestion pricing on the demand for clean transport modes. To this end, it draws on an empirical analysis of the effect of Milan’s congestion charge on the use of bike sharing. The analysis indicates that congestion pricing increases daily bike-sharing use by at least 5% in the short term. Extending the schedule of the congestion charge in the early evening increases bike-sharing use in the affected time window by 12%. The impact of the policy on bike-sharing use mainly occurs through the reduction of road traffic congestion, which makes cycling safer and more pleasant. The findings of the study indicate that policies aiming to reduce car use also have positive repercussions on the uptake of green mobility options. Relying solely on direct incentives for cycling, which often involve infrastructure projects, is likely insufficient to remove barriers to bike use.
Q58|Vintage differentiated regulations and plant survival: Evidence from coal-fired plants|This paper assesses the effect of environmental regulations on plant survival and emissions using data on the extent of vintage differentiation of regulations (VDR5) regarding air pollution emission limit values for existing and new coal-fired power plants. Focussing on NOx and SOx emissions, the paper applies survival analysis techniques on a sample of generating units across 31 OECD and non-member countries between 1962 and 2012.
Q58|The Environmental and Welfare Implications of Parking Policies|Parking policies have significant environmental and economic implications, which have often been left unconsidered. This paper reviews the relevant literature to provide a deeper understanding of the main environmental and economic consequences of common parking policies, and suggest policy options to protect the environment and increase social welfare.
Q58|Improving economic efficiency and climate mitigation outcomes through international co-ordination on carbon pricing|This paper presents the potential benefits and challenges of enhanced international co-ordination on carbon pricing and outlines the different types and levels of co-ordination that are available for national and sub-national governments. These levels include, inter alia, facilitating new pricing schemes, phasing out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, sectoral approaches, co-ordination on minimum carbon prices and carbon pricing clubs. Jurisdictions may want to adopt several of these options simultaneously and may co-ordinate at multiple levels of government or across countries and sectors. This creates a bottom-up ‘web of carbon pricing schemes’, which can be an important element in delivering the Nationally Determined Contributions of the Paris Agreement and which has the potential to support greater levels of climate action and ambition.
Q58|Policy approaches to incentivise sustainable plastic design|Plastics are an important material in the economy but present a challenge for waste management, resource efficiency and the environment. Low rates of recycling and high rates of environmental leakage represent key sustainability challenges for plastics as well as product designers and producers. The chemical composition of plastics, including their additives, create physical and toxicological barriers to ‘closing the loop’ on the material, and creates risks such as low quality secondary materials or ecological exposure to hazardous chemicals. A range of policy instruments can be applied to improve the sustainability of plastics, including regulations, market-based instruments, information and voluntary tools. The report reviews the current use of instruments in each of these categories, provides a number of good practice examples, such as product taxes and charges, eco-design standards, extended producer responsibility and environmental product labels, as well as discussing opportunities for their future applications.
Q58|Flexibility mechanisms in environmental regulations: Their use and impacts|Based on an in-depth literature review and responses to a survey among OECD member countries, this paper discusses the use of flexibility mechanisms in environmental regulations. Such mechanisms can provide flexibility as to how a given environmental improvement is achieved, regarding where environmental improvements take place, when they take place, as regards who is to achieve the improvements, and for which pollutants the emission reductions are to be achieved.The literature on these issues is limited, but it is clear that some such mechanisms can have important environmental and economic impacts. In certain cases, flexibility mechanisms which have provided important benefits in terms of cost reductions have proven to also shift pollution to areas where the negative health impacts are larger. Hence, it will be useful to carefully assess the related social costs and benefits of both existing and new flexibility mechanisms.
Q58|Towards Green Growth in Emerging Market Economies: Evidence from Environmental Performance Reviews|This paper provides a cross-country review of progress towards green growth in selected emerging market economies that are members or partners of the OECD. It draws on the country studies conducted within the OECD Environmental Performance Review Programme for Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Turkey between 2013 and 2019. It presents the main achievements in the countries reviewed, along with common trends and policy challenges. It provides insights into the effectiveness and efficiency of green growth policy frameworks and measures, which may provide useful lessons for other OECD and partner countries.
Q58|Trends in policy indicators on trade and environment|Addressing the relationship between domestic environmental regulations and international trade policies is essential to better understand the need for consistency and complementarity between these areas. The set of trade and environment indicators developed by the OECD aims to provide insights on this relationship by shedding light on topical debates regarding the interactions between trade and environmental policies. Issues covered include: carbon emissions embodied in trade; embodied raw materials in trade; the volume of trade in environmentally-related goods; tariffs on environmentally-related goods; support measures for fossil fuels; enabling policy and regulatory environment for renewable energy; the volume of trade in waste and scrap; and nutrient balances of exported grains. Although initial insights are provided for these indicators, no detailed analyses is developed at this stage. Rather, these indicators are building blocks to analyse, for instance, the determinants of identified trends or to allow for a better understanding of the issues at hand. Possible avenues for further policy-relevant investigations using the indicators are identified and discussed for each topic covered.
Q58|Is Environmental Tax Harmonization Desirable in Global Value Chains?|The current globalization is characterized by the spatial unbundling of parts production and assembly, leading to the dispersion of pollution. We study environmental taxes in a two-country model of global value chains in which the location of parts and assembly can di er. When unbundling costs are so high that parts and assembly must co-locate in the pre-globalized world, pollution is spatially concentrated and harmonizing environmental taxes maximizes the global welfare. By contrast, under low unbundling costs triggering the dispersion of parts and thus of pollution in the world today, the harmonization does not maximize the global welfare.
Q58|Switching to Hydropower renewable energy to mitigate the effects of the carbon emissions in South and East Asian economies|Energy is the most essential tool for production and distribution of economic goods. It is also considered as crucial input of economic development. The World Energy Committee states that there are several environmental risks linked to energy production from non-renewable sources such as coal, gas, and petroleum etc. One of the associated risks is high per capita carbon emissions. To reduce such risk economy should switch to the renewable energy sources that characterize less or no carbon emission. This paper investigated the dynamics of coal, gas and hydroelectric energy within the framework of the environmental Kuznets curve. The study used the Arellano and Bond (1991) dynamic panel model using the GMM framework developed by the Hansen (1982). The empirical results of the study confirm the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis and that coal and gas are significant contributors to carbon. Results suggest that the hydel energy can play an essential role in mitigating the carbon emissions and improving climate emissions in case of South and East Asian Countries.
Q58|The Implication of B20 Policy on Environment|This paper investigates the impact of B20 policy, with the aims to reduce fossil oil import and increase production of biofuel, on environment impact. General Trade Analysis Project on Energy and Environment (GTAP E) model is using to analyze its impact. the result shows that reduction of 20 percent on import oil gives positive impact on reduction of carbon dioxode emission. While paddy rice, forestry, vegan fruit and agriculture gives negative impact on commodity market price, and natural resources gives positive impacts.
Q58|The Impact of Carbon Tax on GDP and Environment|This study aims to examine the impact of imposing carbon taxes as an effort to reduce the effects of greenhouse gases. By using GTAP-E, this study found that the imposition of a vehicle carbon tax of 5 percent resulted in a reduction in the GDP rate of 0.01 percent and effectively reduced the level of carbon dioxide emissions by 0.06 percent.
Q58|Indonesia's Commitment to Reducing GHG and Its Impact on the Indonesian Economy: CGE Approach|To achieve the carbon emission target in Indonesia in 2030, what trade offs will be carried out if viewed from an economic perspective such as GDP, energy consumption? This study employs the CGE model to see the impact of imposing carbon tax on GDP and GHG emissions in Indonesia. Five scenarios have been applied to gauge the linkage between those factors. The main finding in this study is that carbon tax can reduce emissions in large numbers in Indonesia thus that carbon tax can be used as an effective emission control instrument. However, what needs to be concerned is the impact of carbon tax on decreasing GDP. It is different from Singapore where the impact of carbon tax almost does not affect GDP, in Indonesia even though the tax is applied in small amounts but has a significant effect on changes in GDP.
Q58|Using Value-at-Risk for effective energy portfolio risk management|It is evident that the prediction of future variance through advanced GARCH type models is essential for an effective energy portfolio risk management. Still it fails to provide a clear view on the specific amount of capital that is at risk on behalf of the investor or any party directly affected by the price fluctuations of specific or multiple energy commodities. Thus, it is necessary for risk managers to make one further step, determining the most robust and effective approach that will enable them to precisely monitor and accurately estimate the portfolio’s Value-at-Risk, which by definition provides a good measure of the total actual amount at stake. Nevertheless, despite the variety of the variance models that have been developed and the relative VaR methodologies, the vast majority of the researchers conclude that there is no model or specific methodology that outperforms all the others. On the contrary, the best approach to minimize risk and accurately forecast the future potential losses is to adopt that specific methodology that will be able to take into consideration the particular characteristic features regarding the trade of energy products.
Q58|When the regulator goes home: The effectiveness of environmental oversight|The U.S. EPA designates areas as in non-attainment with National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) if ambient air concentrations of certain pollutants exceed standard levels. Stationary sources located in these areas are required to significantly reduce emissions through technological and other requirements; these sources are also subjected to greater regulatory oversight. However, non-attainment is not a permanent designation and regulatory oversight subsides once an area moves out of non-attainment. In this paper we examine whether the additional regulatory oversight of non-attainment designation is successful (and necessary) at reducing emissions from stationary sources. We estimate the effects of an area moving out of non-attainment on emissions at coal-fired power plants located in these areas. We first model the actions of utility managers subjected to emission reduction requirements. The model suggests that firms under additional scrutiny via non-attainment designation intentionally lower emissions. However, when areas exit non-attainment, i.e., direct regulatory oversight subsides, firms under-utilize clean strategies-including technology-which results in emission increases. Empirical analysis results show that boilers with abatement technology installed as a result of non-attainment increase NO x emissions and emission rate by 16% and 9%, respectively, when exiting non-attainment. Extended model results present evidence that regulated firms are less likely to use fully emission control methods in the absence of direct regulatory oversight. Specifically, the emission increases of exiting non-attainment are driven by the under-utilization of abatement technology inputs and the switch to lower quality fuel.
Q58|Fridays for Future meets the Hotelling rule: some thoughts on decarbonization policies|The Hotelling rule is applied to the case of a fixed CO2 budget restriction which has to be met in order to reach the global warming goal according to the Paris Agreement. While the theoretical result is well-known and simple, the practical implementation under technological uncertainty suggests that tradable emission certificates are superior to CO2 taxes. The practical implementaion has also to consider that production chains are globalized, and that decarbonization strategies will be pointless if the Global South is not part of it.
Q58|Evaluating policy instruments for the conservation of biodiversity in a changing climate|Climate change is a key threat for biodiversity. In order to mitigate this threat, ecologists suggest two conservation strategies: (1) enabling a species’ migration towards areas that will become suitable for the species as climatic conditions change and (2) creating climate refugia in which the species may persist even if the surrounding landscape is no longer climatically ideal. The policy instruments that could be used to implement these conservation strategies have so far not been evaluated comprehensively from an economic perspective. We develop a conceptual evaluation framework with the criteria ecological effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and dynamic incentives, which are criteria commonly applied in the economic analysis of environmental policy instruments. For each criterion, we develop of a set of specific evaluation criteria to assess policy instruments for species conservation under climate change. We apply the framework by conducting a conceptual analysis of three types of policy instruments – land purchases, offsets and conservation payments. A key finding of our analysis is that the degree to which a policy instrument is appropriate for species conservation depends strongly on the conservation strategy chosen.
Q58|Cost containment in pollution auctions|This article investigates supply reserves in pollution permit auctions. A supply reserve is a fixed quantity of permits that is automatically released if the initial clearing price is sufficiently high. The main rationale for using such a reserve is for cost containment: to lower the final clearing price. We show the inclusion of a reserve does exactly the opposite and provide corroborating experimental evidence. Relative to a benchmark without a supply reserve, we find that the introduction of a supply reserve will actually increase the clearing price, increase the revenue from the auction, and increase auction efficiency. The clearing price also increases in the level of the trigger price and relative size of the reserve. This has important implications for supply reserves currently in use, such as the Cost Containment Reserve (CCR) within the US Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI)
Q58|Fukushima and German Energy Policy 2005 - 2015/2016|The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident in 2011 led to some drastic reactions in Germany, in particular an immediate shut-downof older nuclear power plants. This event is therefore often seen as a turning point, or a major accelerator for the German Energiewende. We investigate the short term effects, but also put the event into a longer, 10-year perspective. This shows that hardly any trend in the energy policy was strongly affected by policy decisions of 2011. Major trends are the increase of renewable electricity sources, the phase out of nuclear, a slight increase in energy efficiency, while total energy consumption and also greenhouse gas emissions remained stable in the decade 2005-2015/16. We also provide some tentative explanations for these developments.
Q58|The Reformed EU ETS - Intertemporal Emission Trading with Restricted Banking|With the increase of the linear reduction factor (LRF), the implementation of the market stability reserve (MSR) and the introduction of the cancellation mechanism (CM), the EU ETS changed fundamentally. We develop a discrete time model of the intertemporal allowance market that accurately depicts these reforms assuming that prices develop with the Hotelling rule as long as the TNAC is non-empty. A sensitivity analysis ensures the robustness of the model results regarding its input parameters. The accurate modelling of the EU ETS allows for a decomposition of the eﬀects of the individual amendments and the evaluation of the dynamic eﬃciency. The MSR shifts emissions to the future but is allowance preserving. The CM reduces the overall emission cap, increasing allowance prices in the long run, but does not signiﬁcantly impact the emission and price path in the short run. The increased LRF leads with 9 billion cancelled allowances to a stronger reduction than the CM and is therefore the main price driver of the reform.
Q58|Air Pollution during Pregnancy and Birth Outcomes in Italy|We investigate the impact of fetal exposure to air pollution on health outcomes at birth in Italy in the 2000s combining information on mother’s residential location from birth certificates with information on PM10 concentrations from air quality monitors. The potential endogeneity deriving from differential pollution exposure is addressed by exploiting as-good-as-random variation in rainfall shocks as an instrumental variable for air pollution concentrations. Our results show that both average levels of PM10 and days above the hazard limit have detrimental effects on birth weight, duration of gestation as well as overall health status at birth. These effects are mainly driven by pollution exposure during the third trimester of pregnancy and further differ in size with respect to the maternal socio-economic status, suggesting that babies born to socially disadvantaged mothers are more vulnerable. Given the non negligible effects of pollution on birth outcomes, further policy efforts are needed to fully protect fetuses from the adverse effects of air pollution and to mitigate the environmental inequality of health at birth.
Q58|Improvement of Regional Innovation Policy in Ukraine in the Sustainable Development Context|In the light of the Sustainable Development (SD) concept, the eco-innovation promotion becomes the central issue of innovation regulation. Given the strategic significance of SD goals for Ukraine and ongoing powers decentralization reform, it is desirable to study the capacity of regional and local authorities to form a proper incentive environment for the sustainable community’s development on innovation (eco-innovation) basis. The conducted analysis shows a limited capacity of regional and local bodies to set drivers of the eco-innovation development in motion. The need to extend the authorities’ powers in the field of resource prices and local tax rates setting and to strengthen the environmental orientation of existing innovation regulation tools is emphasized, in order to improve the regional innovation policy in Ukraine.
Q58|Neutral carbon tax and environmental targets in Brazil|We evaluate the effects of a carbon tax in the Brazilian economy using an input-output framework. First, we consider the impacts of a carbon tax of US$ 10 and US$ 50/metric ton of CO2 equivalent. As usual, the adoption of the carbon tax generates adverse effects on GDP, wages and jobs in the short term, but reduces emissions and generates new government revenues, especially in the case of the greater tax. Second, we consider a broader tax system reform. In this reform, we replace distortionary taxes by a tax on value added. To compensate for the loss of government revenue, we assume a carbon tax with equivalent revenue. We find that the net effect is a GDP increase of 0.47%, the creation of 533 thousand jobs and reduction of 1.6 million tons of CO2 emissions. Both scenarios exempt exports and levy imports to correct adverse effects on the countryâ€™s competitiveness.
Q58|Retour de la taxe carbone : les options en présence|Le « grand débat national », décidé et organisé par le pouvoir exécutif, va connaître son épilogue dans les prochaines semaines. Engendré par la révolte des « gilets jaunes » contre l’iniquité fiscale, il était logique qu’il suscite une réflexion sur la réforme de la fiscalité carbone, suspendue en décembre 2018, qui se trouve au point d’intersection exact entre les deux thèmes les plus débattus en ligne par les Français : « la transition écologique » et « la fiscalité et les dépenses publiques ». Nous ajoutons aujourd’hui une dimension supplémentaire à ce débat en proposant d’instituer pour 2020 une contribution climat anti-précarité énergétique. C’est l’occasion d’éclairer pour les citoyens et les décideurs certaines des options de réforme en présence, avant, éventuellement, de trancher. Le Tableau 1 présente les caractéristiques des quatre propositions les plus abouties et détaillées présentées ces dernières semaines, dont la nôtre (il en existe bien d’autres).
Q58|Taxe carbone, le retour, à quelles conditions ?|La perspective d’une reprise de la hausse de la fiscalité carbone française, suspendue en décembre 2018, s’est précisée à l’occasion du « grand débat national » et plusieurs propositions d’amélioration du dispositif existant ont été avancées dans le débat public, visant en particulier sa dimension sociale. Nous proposons à notre tour dans cet article une nouvelle fiscalité carbone, dénommée « contribution climat anti-pauvreté énergétique », que nous inscrivons dans son cadre écologique, social, juridique et politique. Nous commençons par formuler, à la lumière des trois échecs successifs de 2001, 2010 et 2018, quatre critères de réussite d’une fiscalité carbone : son efficacité écologique, sa justice sociale, sa conformité juridique et enfin son acceptabilité politique. Nous détaillons ensuite pour chaque critère les modalités que nous envisageons afin d’assurer la réussite de notre proposition. Répondant notamment aux revendications de justice sociale et d’équité fiscale du mouvement des « gilets jaunes », la fiscalité carbone que nous proposons permettrait à 50% des ménages français de recevoir plus qu’ils ne paient, les recettes additionnelles dégagées permettant de réduire considérablement la précarité énergétique qui touche des millions de Français.
Q58|Efficient taxation of fuel and road use|This study calculates efficient taxes on fuel and road use designed to combat driving related externalities. The study shows that the efficient road user charge on fuel is below the marginal mileage-related damage to prevent tax avoidance due to an excessive economic driving-style. The current US tax rate on gasoline is way below the efficient tax rate while the current UK rate is slightly above the efficient rate in this case. The efficient tax on fuels exceeds the marginal damage of CO2- emissions to promote an economic driving-style when the tax is combined with a GPS-based tax on road use. The efficient GPS-based tax rate on road use is reduced below the marginal damage of mileage-related externalities in this case.
Q58|The timing of environmental policies with excess burden of taxation in free-entry mixed markets|This study investigates the timing of environmental policies in free-entry mixed markets with excess burden of taxation. We consider two scenarios in which the government chooses the optimal tax before or after firms enter the market, and compare these ex-ante and ex-post taxations. When the excess burden of taxation is small (large), we find that ex-post taxation imposes a lower (higher) tax level than ex-ante taxation, which induces a larger (smaller) number of firms and a higher (lower) environmental damage. Finally, the effect of excess burden of taxation can increase the welfare, but ex-ante taxation always yields higher welfare than ex-post taxation.
Q58|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|An analytical, ecosystemic, epistemological and methodological framework, encompassing the combination and co-design of four dimensions of being in the world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), is posited to identify and deal with the problems of difficult settlement or solution in the world, reconceptualising roles and drives, in view of a transformative change of the current paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom embedded at institutional, cultural, economic and political level.
Q58|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q58|Mathematics vs. Statistics in tackling Environmental Economics uncertainty|In this paper the appropriate background in Mathematics and Statistics is considered in developing methods to investigate Risk Analysis problems associated with Environmental Economics uncertainty. New senses of uncertainty are introduced and a number of sources of uncertainty are discussed and presented. The causes of uncertainty are recognized helping to understand how they affect the adopted policies and how important their management is in any decision-making process. We show Mathematical Models formulate the problem and Statistical models offer possible solutions, restricting the underlying uncertainty, given the model and the error assumptions are correct. As uncertainty is always present we suggest ways on how to handle it.
Q58|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|The ecosystemic approach favours the development of healthy societies, that invest in each other rather than in mega-projects with intensive use of resources, it extends to environmental problems, quality of life and the state of the world a larger conceptual framework that includes ontological and epistemological issues, in view of the isomorphy and transfers of concepts, laws and models in various fields; it relates to how taken for granted worldviews, values and perceptions affect the definition and treatment of the problems by public policies, research and teaching programmes in the contemporary world.
Q58|The Timing Of Environmental Tax Policy With A Consumer-Friendly Firm|This study considers a Cournot duopoly model with a consumer-friendly firm and analyzes the interplay between the strategic choice of abatement technology and the timing of governmentʼs commitment to the environmental tax policy. We show that the optimal emission tax under committed policy regime is always higher than that under non-committed one, but both taxes can be higher than marginal environmental damage when the consumer-friendliness is high enough. We also show that the emergence of a consumer-friendly firm might yield better outcomes to both welfare and environmental quality without the commitment to the environmental policy.
Q58|How Social Preferences Influence the Stability of a Climate Coalition|This study examines the impact of social preferences on the individual incentives of participating in climate coalitions with laboratory experimental evidences. The theoretical result suggests that, when a player was inequality-neutral, a dominant strategy equilibrium could exist. However, individuals with social preference may lead a vacillated coalition formation. Joining or not joining depend on the player was critical or non-critical to an effective coalition respectively. The laboratory experimental result shows that players were inequality-averse and the coalition was usually larger than the equilibrium size but unstable. The inequality-averse attitudes have significantly positive impact on the incentives of participation. Particularly, when they are non-critical players, egalitarians are likely to give up the free riding benefit by joining a coalition. Our findings help to understand the climate coalition formation.
Q58|Spatiotemporal distribution of inclusive wealth data: An illustrated guide|In this paper we develop an illustrated guide for IWR2017 data. Graphical representations aim to reveal the multi-layer nature of IWR data with self-explanatory schemes. There are four parts of the analysis. In the first part, we present the spatial distribution of the three types of capitals - natural, human and produced - associated to social well-being. In the second part, we illustrate capitals’ temporal variation over 1990-2014, on different geographical and economic backgrounds. We investigate the dynamic evolution of capital assets and capture the key trend among different geographical regions and among regions with different economic growth. The third part makes an additional focus on natural capital and its spatial distribution over different income levels and regions. The forth part examines the causal relation between pollution and wealth. All four research questions are confronted with ease, clarity, and accuracy, with digital methods for mapping. A variety of graphical styles and/or forms is employed to indicate the resource use, capital exploitation trends of countries of different economic integration, uncover policies per income level.
Q58|Nonparametric estimates of the clean and dirty energy substitutability|In growth theory, a greater-than-one elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy is among key necessary conditions for long-run green economic growth. Using parametric specifications, Papageorgiou et al. (2017) provide first estimates of this fundamentally important inter-energy substitution elasticity. We extend their work by relaxing restrictive functional-form assumptions about production technologies using flexible nonparametric methods. We find that the technological substitutability between clean and dirty energy inputs may not be that strong, especially in the case of a final-goods sector for which the inter-energy elasticity of substitution statistically exceeds one for at most a third of industries/countries. Hence, the favorability of technological conditions for long-run green growth may not be corroborated by the cross-country empirical evidence as strongly as previously thought.
Q58|Time-inconsistent environmental policies with a consumer-friendly firm: Tradable permits versus emission tax|This study considers the timing of environmental policies with a consumer-friendly firm having abatement technology and compares two market-based regulatory instruments, tradable permits and emission tax regulations. When the government can credibly commit its policy, we show that the equilibrium outcomes under both policies are equivalent in terms of permits price and tax rate. Under the non-committed policy, however, the equivalence breaks down because firms have opposite incentives to induce time-consistent policy to be adjusted ex post. In particular, compared to pre-committed government, firms abate less emission to induce higher emission quotas under the permits policy while a consumer-friendly firm abates more emissions to reduce tax rate under the tax policy. Finally, we show that tax policy will result in higher welfare and lower environmental damage unless the concern on consumer surplus is large.
Q58|Environment and Sustainable Development|The severity of environmental problems and their socio-economic effects are important research issues as pollution and damages are local or global externalities implying market failures when in most of the cases the sources of pollution do not consider the full cost (including the related social costs) caused to others by their actions. Managing the various environmental problems and their associated implications is of interest to decision makers. Estimates of damage costs and a variety of other issues connected to changes in environmental quality and having to do with the importance of uncertainty and risk aversion are essential issues open to discussion. Furthermore, setting up competent policies requires cautious consideration of each source of pollution. For this reason, various features in the use of sufficient policies to cope with the various environmental problems, like people’s awareness of environmental use and non-use values, institutional frameworks and similar concerns have to be considered. Policies to handle pollution and the related degradation have to take into account both the specific economic conditions as well as the structure of the associated sectors of each region.
Q58|Advances in Green Economy and Sustainability: Introduction|The environment is changing in a dynamic way. Sustainable development consists of both natural environmental changes as well as changes caused by humans. Nowadays environmental changes occur more often and much quicker and these changes challenge ecosystems and human societies. The aim of this special issue is to address the achievement of sustainable development by addressing the current issues of concern. Specifically, the green economy concept is an important term in international agendas. Together with the current economic crisis and the view that policies to attain sustainability cannot be put into operation efficiently, policy makers anticipate a solution from the greening of the economy. Green growth, more energy efficiency, cleaner energy technologies and sustainable development are regularly considered as harmonizing goals by international policy makers.
Q58|Is there green growth in OECD countries?|Taking the Ecological Footprint (EF) as a broad measure of environmental impact of economic activity, there is substantial progress in decoupling economic output from environmental impact. However, this progress has been too slow to compensate the negative environmental impact of economic growth. But since mid of 2000s the EF declines in the OECD countries, and the global EF increase is driven by emerging countries, i.e. China. However, the decline could be mainly explained by a GDP growth slowdown. To achieve a significant reduction (comparable to the goals of the Paris Agreement) a further slowdown could be necessary. Moreover, the paper investigates the role of globalization because the greening of production in OECD countries could be due to a shift of dirty industries to non-OECD countries. Thus OECD countries are net importers of the EF embodied in traded goods. However, the amount of net EF imports is too small and not correlated with the eco-productivity of production. As ecological productivity is strongly correlated with enforced environmental policy, globalization could be used as a vehicle to promote eco-productivity also in non-OECD countries.
Q58|How Production Based and Consumption Based Emissions Accounting Systems Change Climate Policy Analysis: The Case of CO2 Convergence|Much of the existing research analyses on emissions and climate policy are dominantly based on emissions data provided by production-based accounting (PBA) system. However, PBA provides an incomplete picture of driving forces behind these emission changes and impact of global trade on emissions, simply by neglecting the environmental impacts of consumption. To remedy this problem, it is proposed to calculate national emissions based on consumption-based accounting (CBA) system. In this article we question the relevance of PBA’s dominance. To this end, we, firstly, try to assess and compare PBA with CBA adopted in greenhouse gas emissions accounting systems in climate change debates on several issues and to discuss the policy implications of the choice of approach. Secondly, we investigate the convergence patterns in production-based and consumption-based carbon emissions in 35 Annex-B countries for the period between 1990 and 2015. This study, for the first time, puts all these arguments together and discusses possible outcomes of convergence analysis by employing both the production and consumption based CO2 per capita emissions data. The empirical results found some important conclusions which challenge most of the existing CO2 convergence studies.
Q58|Challenges of Rural Economy and Women Economic Empowerment in Afghanistan: A Concept Note|This research paper has been developed with the intention of shedding light over the major challenges and remedies of rural economy in Afghanistan and also discussing explicitly about the women economic empowerment considering Afghanistan’s context. This paper has been prepared in two parts, where part one will be specifically and thoroughly encompassing the major challenges and remedies of rural economy in Afghanistan, however, the second part will be explicitly covering the issues related to women economic empowerment in Afghanistan. General topics and contents under each part of this paper are based on author’s findings and does not preferably follow a report or other person’s view, except secondary data sources which are quoted properly. Objective of this concept papers was to briefly discuss about the major and pivotal issues related to rural economy and how women economic empowerment can aid to it. Indeed, women contribution to economic activities in the rural area of Afghanistan is very rare, and thus, a great chunk of the human capital is not used toward inclusive growth. Author has given a thoughtful attention to women economic empowerment and thus discussed this issue on a separate section with respect to Afghanistan’s ground level realities as per common social norms and practices. This concept paper will be entirely based on academic and nonacademic secondary data from authentic sources. Moreover, at the end of each part, researcher’s recommendations and solutions will also be added for corrective action taking by the government and competent organizations in Afghanistan. As a whole, issues discussed in this paper will be concise and direct to the point. It’s very welcome by the author of this paper that any prospective researcher or an organization can expand the scope of this topic and discusses the major challenges and remedies with a vast set of knowledge, information, and ground level presence.
Q58|Exploring the EMEP Input-Output model of air pollution|The primary objective of this paper is the structural analysis of source-receptor air pollution problems in the EU region. Two views are provided for the analysis: an emission-driven view and a deposition-driven view. Different visual schemes are used to reproduce the global pollution network and identify the biggest sources and sinks of pollution. Visual modelling helps to understand the linkages and interconnections in the transboundary pollution network. Our interactive outputs give the options to zoom in to specific areas of the global source-receptor air pollution scheme and highlight the top emitters or receptors of pollution. Ranking of countries in decreasing order of pollution responsibility and/or vulnerability using graph metrics is a main result. Data sources are emissions-depositions (or source-receptor) tables of air pollutants, available online from the data repository of the European Monitoring and Evaluation Program (EMEP) of the Long-Range Transmission of Air Pollutants in Europe. In our computer-based visual analysis, we employ solely open software.
Q58|A critical review of the main methods to treat undesirable outputs in DEA|The treatment of undesirable outputs in Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) has received great research attention recently. As such and as are presented in this work, there are four possible options to deal with those: first ignoring them from the production function; second treating them as regular inputs; third treating them as normal outputs and fourth performing necessary transformations to take them into account. Also new model propositions for their treatment are being presented. Each method brings with it, benefits and drawbacks which each researcher should take into account at every stage of their research and assess which method is more appropriate to be used.
Q58|Environmental regulation and economic cycles|This paper considers economic cycles that do not depend on the exogenous economic actions. More precisely, the paper develops a positive model of government behavior in order to define the intertemporal fiscal policies that are optimal for a country, determining the optimal level of the budget and the optimal level of the rate of environmental quality, as well. For this purpose, we setup an optimal control model involving the intertemporal subsidy strategies for an authoritarian (like a central European) government. It will be shown - applying the Hopf bifurcation theorem - that cyclical strategy, i.e. waves of regulation, environmental subsidies alternating with deregulation, cuts in social programmes, etc., may be optimal strategies. In this paper we propose an extremely simple optimal control model concerning budget surplus and environmental subsidies. We investigate the cyclical subsiding policies applying one bifurcation theorem. A number of propositions are stated during the solution process.
Q58|Effective energy commodities’ risk management: Econometric modeling of price volatility|The current study emphasizes on the importance of the development of an effective price risk management strategy regarding energy products, as a result of the high volatility of that particular market. The study provides a thorough investigation of the energy price volatility, through the use of GARCH type model variations and the Markov-Switching GARCH methodology, as they are presented in the most representative academic researches. A large number of GARCH type models are exhibited together with the methodology and all the econometric procedures and tests that are necessary for developing a robust and precise forecasting model regarding energy price volatility. Nevertheless, the present research moves another step forward, in an attempt to cover also the probability of potential shifts in the unconditional variance of the models due to the effect of economic crises and several unexpected geopolitical events into the energy market prices.
Q58|Uncertain Penalties and Compliance|We present the results of a series of laboratory economic experiments designed to study compliance behavior of polluting firms when information on the penalty is uncertain. The experiments consist of a regulatory environment in which university students face emission standards and an enforcement mechanism composed of audit probabilities and penalties (conditional on detection of a violation). We examine how uncertainty on the penalty affects the compliance decision and the extent of violation under two enforcement levels: one in which the regulator induces perfect compliance and another one in which it does not. Our results suggest that in the first case, uncertain penalties increase the extent of the violations of those firms with higher marginal benefits. When enforcement is not sufficient to induce compliance, the uncertain penalties do not have any statistically significant effect on compliance behavior. Overall, the results suggest that a cost-effective design of emission standards should consider including public and complete information on the penalties for violations.
Q58|The deterrence effect of linear versus convex penalties in environmental policy: laboratory evidence|We study the individual compliance behavior of polluting firms in an experimental setting under two different penalty functions (a linear and a strictly convex) and two different regulatory instruments (emission standards and tradable pollution permits). We find that a convex penalty, as compared to a linear penalty, increases the market price of pollution permits and the violation rate of firms. The effect of the structure of the fine on the price of permits operates through an increase in the ask-prices of sellers, not on the bids by suppliers. With convex penalties, sellers are not willing to sell a permit at a price as low as with linear penalties. We do not observe an effect of convex penalties on the compliance status of firms with emission standards. These results call for attention on the possible effect that the type of penalties may have on the cost-effectiveness of pollution control programs based on tradable pollution permits.
Q58|Fishing for litter: A cost-benefit analysis of how to abate ocean pollution|Marine plastics inflict annual damages of nearly $2bn on the marine economy. These damages may now be mitigated by a novel scheme that proposes to recover marine plastics. While a range of uses exist for recovered marine plastics; this research finds that none are profitable. While not financially viable, the scheme is found to be economically viable given the significant damages from marine plastics on the marine economy. Implications from this research for the future of pollution abatement are remarked upon.
Q58|Dynamic Efficiency in Experimental Emissions Trading Markets with Investment Uncertainty|Abstract This study employs a laboratory experiment to assess the performance of tradable permit markets on dynamic efficiency arising from cost-reducing investment. The permit allocation rule is the main treatment variable, with permits being fully auctioned or grandfathered. The experimental results show significant investment under both allocation rules in the presence of ex ante uncertainty over the actual investment outcome. However, auctioning permits generally provides stronger incentives to invest in R&D, leading to greater dynamic efficiency compared to grandfathering.
Q58|Aggregate Emission Intensity Targets: Applications to the Paris Agreement|We compare aggregate emission intensity, quantity, and price targets adopted at the national level but implemented cost eﬀectively at the firm level. We obtain simple ranking conditions that depend on the slope ratio of marginal emission damage and marginal abatement cost curves, and threshold parameters determined by the variance and covariance of GDP and business-as-usual emission. We apply the ranking conditions to the top 12 carbon dioxide emitters with specific greenhouse gas targets in the Paris Agreement, and obtain a robust result that intensity targets dominate quantity targets for most of these nations.
Q58|Green Energy Finance in Australia and New Zealand|We explore the history and current status of green energy finance in Australia and New Zealand. Although both countries have enviable renewable energy resources with a 100% renewable mix considered feasible, the two countries present highly contrasting contexts for energy finance. Currently, and largely for historical reasons, renewables make up over 80% of the electricity capacity in New Zealand, whereas in Australia this is 17%. Interestingly, between them and over time, the two countries have employed most of the important policy tools available to incentivize renewables and green energy finance (e.g., carbon taxes, carbon trading, a green investment bank, a green certification market, and feed-in-tariffs). Despite this, we show that between 2004 and 2017 both countries did not meet their potential in terms of renewables and have lower levels of green energy investment relative to gross domestic product per capita than many other developed countries. The Australian and New Zealand context provides many lessons for other jurisdictions—ranging from the need for cross-party and regulatory commitment to energy transition, to the need for policy stability. Indeed, a key issue in Australia and New Zealand is the challenge of designing electricity markets that support energy transition and the investment that it requires. Incumbents in both jurisdictions are fearful of a “death spiral” induced by distributed power, and in Australia political instability and market design issues contributed to a major energy crisis in 2017. However, the crisis, the Paris Agreement, and the associated impetus of new governments in both countries suggest green energy investment is set to increase in the coming years.
Q58|On The Benefits of Behind-the-Meter Rooftop Solar and Energy Storage: The Importance of Retail Rate Design|We investigate the impact of retail rate design on the investment incentives, avoided utility costs, and cost shifting concerns associated with rooftop solar and rooftop solar plus battery storage systems that are located behind-the-meter. We consider recently proposed changes to California's time-of-use pricing policy for commercial and industrial consumers which shifts on-peak prices from midday hours to the network constrained evening hours. We find that the shift in on-peak hours decreases investment in rooftop solar and has an ambiguous effect on storage investment. We demonstrate that storage reduces utility network costs, but the magnitude of this effect varies critically with the prevailing retail rate structure. Importantly, we show that a shift in the on-peak period to the constrained evening hours does not always elevate the avoided network cost associated with a battery system when demand charges are imposed on a consumer's private maximum demand. We illustrate that this issue can be alleviated by imposing demand charges on consumption that arises in system-constrained hours. We find that cost-shifting concerns are substantially reduced under the proposed rates and tariffs that have a heavy reliance on demand charges. We illustrate that while storage reduces the utility's costs, it can also increase cost-shifting concerns. These findings demonstrate the potential trade-offs between maximizing avoided costs and minimizing cost-shifting concerns under commonly employed retail rate structures.
Q58|The Provision To Pay To Remedy An Environmental Damage In The Context Of Global Climate Change. Case Study Of The Metropolitan Area Of La Comarca Lagunera, Mexico|"The global climate change (IPCC, 2014) causes unexpected and severe hydrometeorological phenomena, among which are the so-called ""waterspouts."" These phenomena, because of the rarity of their appearance, strongly impact urban infrastructure which, as is the case of the metropolitan region under study, (located in a semi-desert climatic zone, and therefore lacking in storm drainage) is not prepared for the adequate management of the water flow generated by the extraordinary hydrometeorological phenomenon. The aforementioned causes the vulnerability of the population to house floods, flooding of vehicular traffic routes, automobile accidents, the appearance of disease-transmitting vector pests, and, in general, the disruption of community life over several weeks. Despite sharing resources, productive and academic activities and being a region with its own social identity, until now, this metropolitan area has lacked a common policy on the environment and adaptation to climate change.Taking into account the above, a field investigation was carried out under the contingent valuation method (Cummings, Brookshire and Shultze 1986, Mitchell and Carson, 1989, Riera, 1994) in order to get closer to knowing the willingness to pay a ""green tax"". ""(Riera, 1994, OECD, 2011, ECLAC, 2015) aimed at remedying the impact of the waterspouts and establishing the adequate infrastructure to adapt effectively to climate change.The research consisted of conducting a survey among the population of the metropolitan area where 400 economically active people were asked, their willingness to pay, as well as the amount that would be willing to cover.The results showed that 42% of the surveyed population, regardless of their personal income, level of education or area of the city in which they live, would be willing to pay to remedy the damage caused by extreme hydrometeorological events. This percentage is considered relevant as a basis for the design and execution of a public policy aimed at adapting to climate change in a context of scarcity of resources for municipal public finances and as a principle for the development of metropolitan policies that design and execute, joint and articulated way, policies and measures of adaptation to the impacts of climate change."
Q58|Demand versus Supply Side Climate Policies with a Carbon Dioxide Ceiling|No abstract is available for this item.
Q58|Buying versus leasing fuel deposits for preservation|In a two-period model with two groups of countries that extract, trade and consume fossil fuel, a climate coalition fights against climate damage by purchasing or leasing deposits to prevent their extraction, and seeks to manipulate the fuel prices in its favor. The deposit-purchase policy is inefficient since it leaves the first-period climate damage externality non-internalized, which is in stark contrast to the efficiency of the deposit-purchase policy in static models. However, for a proper subset of economies the deposit-lease policy turns out to be efficient. It internalizes the climate damage externalities and makes strategic action in the fuel markets ineffective. Finally, we compare the deposit-lease policy and the deposit-purchase policy. If strategic action pays in the fuel markets and the coalition imports fuel, a transition from the deposit-purchase policy to the deposit-lease policy increases [decreases] total welfare if the climate damage is large [small].
Q58|A Real-Business-Cycle model with pollution and environmental taxation: the case of Bulgaria|"We introduce an environmental dimension into a real-business-cycle model augmented with a detailed government sector. We calibrate the model to Bulgarian data for the period following the introduction of the currency board arrangement (1999-2016). We investigate the quantitative importance of utility-enhancing environmental quality, and the mechanics of an ""environmental"" output tax levied on the polluting firm's output, as well as the effect of government spending on pollution abatement over the cycle. In particular, a positive shock to pollution emission in the model works like a positive technological shock, but its effect is quantitatively very small. Overall, the model performs relatively well when evaluated against data, but less so along the environmental dimension, so more research is needed to understand the aggregate effects of pollution."
Q58|Threshold Policy Effects and Directed Technical Change in Energy Innovation| This paper analyzes the effect of environmental policies on the direction of energy innovation across countries over the period 1990-2012. Our novelty is to use threshold regression models to allow for discontinuities in policy effectiveness depending on a country's relative competencies in renewable and fossil fuel technologies. We show that the dynamic incentives of environmental policies become effective just above the median level of relative competencies. In this critical second regime, market-based policies are moderately effective in promoting renewable innovation, while command-and-control policies depress fossil based innovation. Finally, market-based policies are more effective to consolidate a green comparative advantage in the last regime. We illustrate how our approach can be used for policy design in laggard countries.
Q58|System Transition and Structural Change Processes in the Energy Efficiency of Residential Sector: Evidence from EU Countries|This paper aims to analyse the evolution of energy efficiency systems for the residential sector of EU countries over the past twenty years and the associated process of structural change occurred in EU economies. To this purpose, we develop a set of indicators to measure some significant characteristics of the energy efficiency systems and map European countries in terms of four dimensions: energy system, innovation system, policy mix design and export competitiveness. Building on these indicators we develop a cluster analysis identifying non-arbitrary homogeneous country groups according to several characteristics in order to investigate the co-evolution of technological trajectories, energy use performance and structural change in this specific domain. Results suggest the distinction of EU countries into four groups, that are individually and comparatively scrutinized shedding light on how the four dimensions here considered dynamically evolved and interacted within and across countries. Empirical findings reveal that the design of the domestic policy mix may play a key role in shaping technological trajectories and structural change processes that in turns allow an increase in external competitiveness performance. Such positive impact appears to be closely related to the quality and quantity of international relationships with main economic partners.
Q58|Fostering green investments and tackling climate-related financial risks: Which role for macroprudential policies?|While there is a growing debate among researchers and practitioners on the possible role of central banks and financial regulators in supporting a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy, the information on which macroprudential instruments could be used for reaching the “green structural change” is still quite limited. Moreover, the achievement of climate goals is still affected by the so-called “green finance gap”. This paper addresses these issues by proposing a critical review of existing and novel prudential approaches to incentivizing the decarbonization of banks' balance sheets and aligning finance with sustainable growth and development objectives. The analysis carried out in the paper allows understanding of under which conditions macroprudential policy could tackle climate change and promote green lending, while also containing climate-related financial risks.
Q58|On the Effects of Linking Voluntary Cap-and-Trade Systems for CO2 Emissions|Linkage of cap-and-trade systems is typically advocated by economists on a general analogy with the beneficial linking of free-trade areas and on the specific grounds that linkage will ensure cost effectiveness among the linked jurisdictions. An appropriate and widely accepted specification for the damages of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions within a relatively short (say 5-10 year) period is that marginal damages for each jurisdiction are constant (although they can differ among jurisdictions). With this defensible assumption, the analysis is significantly clarified and yields simple closed-form expressions for all CO2 permit prices. Some implications for linked and unlinked voluntary CO2 cap-and-trade systems are derived and discussed.
Q58|Climate Change Awareness and Willingness to Pay for its Mitigation: Evidence from the UK|We explore an unprecedented dataset of almost 6000 observations to identify main predictors of climate knowledge, climate risk perception and willingness to pay for climate change mitigation. Among nearly 70 potential explanatory variables we detect the most important ones using multisplit lasso estimator. Importantly, we test significance of individuals' preferences about time, risk and equity. Our study is innovative as these behavioural characteristics were recorded by including experimental methods into a live sample survey. This unique way of data collection combines advantages of survey and experiments. The most important predictors of environmental attitudes are numeracy, cognitive ability, ideological world-view and inequity aversion.
Q58|Endogenous Climate Coalitions and Free Trade - Building the Missing Link|In this paper, we discuss the endogenous formation of climate coalitions in an issue-linkage regime. In particular, we propose to build a link to the issue of preferential free trade. Trade privileges exclusively granted to members of the climate coalition work as an incentive mechanism for countries to join in. A multi-stage strategic trade framework is used in which coalition (fringe) countries can dispose of a policy set comprising a discriminatory import-tariff on dirty goods as well as producer emission permits traded on a common (local) permits market. A fairly novel modelling of the preferential free trade area is incorporated which is at the core of our approach. We find strong support for the claim that trade liberalization can promote relatively large and effective climate coalitions compared to the single issue regime. As a policy implication, negotiations on international climate treaties and free trade arrangements should be interlinked.
Q58|Mergers in nonrenewable resource oligopolies and environmental policies|We examine the profitability of horizontal mergers within nonrenewable resource industries, which account for a large proportion of merger activities worldwide. Each firm owns a private stock of the resource and uses open-loop strategies when choosing its extraction path. We analytically show that even a small merger (merger of 2 firms) is always profitable when the resource stock owned by each firm is small enough. In the case where pollution is generated by the industry’s activity, we show that an environmental policy that increases the firms’ production cost or reduces their selling price can deter a merger. This speeds up the industry’s extraction and thereby causes emissions to occur earlier than under a laissez-faire scenario.
Q58|Measuring Impact of Uncertainty in a Stylized Macro-Economic Climate Model within a Dynamic Game Perspective|In this paper we try to quantify/measure the main factors that influence the equilibrium outcome and pursued strategies in a simplistic model for the use of fossil versus green energy over time. The model is derived using the standard Solow macro-economic growth model in a two-country setting within a dynamic game perspective. After calibrating the model for a setting of OECD versus non-OECD countries we study what kind of uncertainties affect the outcomes of the linearized model most, assuming both countries use Nash strategies to cope with shocks that impact the model. The main outcome of this study is that the parameters that occur in the objective of both players seem to carry the most uncertainty for both the outcome of the model and strategies.
Q58|Towards Renewable Electricity in Europe: An Empirical Analysis of the Determinants of Renewable Electricity Development in the European Union|The twenty-first century must see a decarbonisation of electricity production to mitigate the flow of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. This paper presents an econometric analysis of the factors that motivate the use of renewable energy in electricity production using panel data from EU Member States during the period 2000-2015. The research extends the literature in this area in several ways. Firstly, the econometric analysis is focused on the electricity sector rather than on the overall primary energy supply, which also includes the diverse heating and transport sectors. In addition, an alternative public policy variable is proposed using the tax and levy component of electricity bills. Furthermore, an alternative econometric approach is employed using a hybrid mixed effects estimator. The results of this analysis are found to be broadly as expected, with mixed fossil fuel price effects; electricity grid interconnection and higher levels of greenhouse gas emissions both motivate the development of renewable electricity. Policy implications are that policy support for fossil fuels should be ceased; electricity grid interconnections should be developed between countries; and furthermore, levies on retail electricity prices to fund RE support schemes are effective at promoting renewable electricity.
Q58|Information Aggregation in Emissions Markets with Abatement|A key policy argument in favor of emissions markets (relative to command-and-control types of regulation) is their ability to aggregate dispersed information and generate price signals to guide firms trading and abatement decisions. We investigate this argument in a multi-period model where firms receive noisy private signals about their current period emissions and privately observe their previous period emissions before this information is made public to the rest of the market. Firms respond to information by trading and abating emissions. We show that there exists a rational expectations equilibrium that fully aggregates firms private information, justifying the policy argument in favor of emissions markets, in the absence of other frictions. We also derive predictions about how prices should be reacting to new private or public information and show that the possibility of abatement dampens the impact of shocks on prices. Finally, we show that the information aggregation result breaks down if firms abatement costs are also private information. JEL Codes: G14, D83, D84, D85, Q58. Keywords: Information Aggregation, Efficient Market Hypothesis, Price Formation, Emissions Trading.
Q58|What drives the withdrawal of protected areas? Evidence from the Brazilian Amazon|Since the late 1970s protected areas have been one of the most widely used regulatory tools for the conservation of ecosystem services. In this paper, we assess the possible drivers to the choice of withdrawing protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon. Protected areas are subject to inefficiencies because of the existence of conflicts over land between conservation and development activities. Further additionality is an issue, as protected areas tend to be located in areas with low opportunity cost of conservation, where forests are not likely to be cleared. This issue is particularly important in the Brazilian Amazon where growing development must be combined with the need to avoid deforestation. We first present a simple model of degazettement choice which leads us to assess how the presence of two agencies having different development and conservation objectives can lead to implementing this decision. We suggest that the probability to decide the removal of protected areas is larger in places with low and high development pressures. Then, we investigate the empirical determinants of protected area withdrawal by taking advantages of the new PADDDtracker (Protected Area Downgradement, Degazettement and Downsizement) dataset (WWF, 2017b). We confirm that the likelihood of degazettement is strongly influenced by developmentpressures, through characteristics of the land that enable agricultural development, and by variables related to protected area quality of enforcement and management costs. As protected areas located in highest pressure areas are more likely to be additional, there is a risk that only the most effective protected areas may loose their protection.
Q58|The long run dynamics of economic growth with environmental catastrophe|The purpose of this paper is to consider the dynamics of growth in a two state variable and two control variable model where the environment is taken as a constraint. This captures some elements of environmental problems not covered in the cost approach. It also captures the idea that the environment may be an absolute barrier or have a catastrophe boundary. It show that, even though the environment is not a cost, it may be optimal to cut growth before the barrier is reached. It also shows that the technology of production has a strong non-linear affect on maximum attainable output.
Q58|From “Structural Change” to “Transformative Change”: Rationale and Implications|This paper examines the relationship between “Transformative Change,” advocated by the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, and “Structural Change,” which has been a longstanding and important concept in Development Economics. It shows that while structural change is still relevant, growing concerns for social development and environmental protection made it necessary to switch to the more encompassing concept of “Transformative Change” that provides greater space for inclusion and interaction of all three dimensions of sustainable development. The paper notes that, in the era of greater globalization, countries have followed more varied patterns of structural change, all of which are not equally suitable for sustainable development. The paper notes that Transformative Change subsumes structural change, and it discusses the modifications that structural change needs to be more compatible with sustainable development.
Q58|The allocation of CO2 emissions as a claims problem| This paper proposes to use claims models as a reasonable and operative alternative in order to allocate CO2 emissions by countries (or groups), in the framework of multilateral negotiations and the fight against climate change. This framework has two characteristics which fits this type of claims models: a restrictive global endowment (the maximum world emissions permitted) and the excess of emissions (and demand) by countries. The proposed methodology consists on establishing some requirements that any admissible distribution solution should satisfy, examining a broad group of theoretical distribution solutions emerged from the specific literature and analyzing their application according to reasonable ordering criteria linked to equity and stability properties. The proposed theoretical framework is applied empirically to an analysis by groups of countries in the period 2010- 2050, using various world endowments from Meinshausen et al. (2009), together with claims forecasts associated with the RCP scenarios. The results obtained point out that for intermediate claims scenarios the solutions associated with the constrained equal awards (CEA) and Î±-minimal (Î±-min) solutions are typically selected. In particular, these two solutions are clearly equity-sensitive, where the efforts to be made by Asia and OECD are very important, as a whole, and especially in the case of the CEA. Given these circumstances, and the better balance between equity and proportionality associated to the Î±-min allocation methodology maybe that one would be more operative and acceptable. Keywords: Carbon emissions, claims problem, climate change policy JEL classification: D7, H4, H8, Q58, Q54
Q58|Optimal timing of harzardous waste clean-up under an environmental bond an a strict liability rule|Inadequate site clean-up and restoration by resource extraction firms leave a toxic legacy which must be dealt with by governments. This study compares the impacts of an environmental bond and a strict liability rule on a firm's incentives for cleaning up hazardous waste during resource extraction and upon termination. The firm's problem is modelled as a stochastic optimal control problem that results in a system of Hamilton Jacobi Bellman equations. The model is applied to a typical copper mine in Canada. The resource price is modelled as a stochastic differential equation, which is calibrated to copper futures prices using a Kalman filtering approach. A numerical solution is implemented to determine the optimal abatement and extraction rates as well as the critical levels of copper prices that would motivate a firm to clean up the accumulated waste under each policy. The paper demonstrates that an environmental bond provides stronger waste abatement incentives, implying that the waste is more likely to be cleaned up under the bond than the liability. The strict liability rule imposes sunk costs on a firm upon termination which would motivate it to remain inactive as a way to escape clean-up costs. However, the environmental bond raises funds ex ante for future clean-up costs and thus encourages site restoration.
Q58|Strategic interactions and uncertainty in decisions to curb greenhouse gas emissions|"This paper examines the strategic interactions of two large regions making choices about greenhouse gas emissions in the face of rising global temperatures. Optimal decisions are modelled in a fully dynamic, closed loop Stackelberg pollution game. Global average temperature is modelled as a mean reverting stochastic process. A numerical solution of a coupled system of HJB equations is implemented. We explore the impact of temperature volatility and regional asymmetries on emissions, contrasting the outcomes from the Stackelberg game with the choices made by a social planner. When players are identical, a classic tragedy of the commons is demonstrated in which players in the game choose higher carbon emissions and have lower utility as compared to the outcome with a social planner. Over certain values of state variables, the tragedy of the commons is shown to be exacerbated by increased temperature volatility and regional asymmetries in climate damages. Asymmetries in environmental preferences can, under certain conditions, result in a green paradox whereby green sentiments in one region cause the other region to increase emissions. Interestingly, we also found that a contrary ""green bandwagon"" effect is possible. At high levels of the carbon stock, green preferences in one region can cause the other region to reduce emissions."
Q58|Climate Policy Integration on the National and Regional Level: A Case Study for Austria and Styria|Many climate-relevant decisions are taken in other policy areas with only little regard to climate change impacts. In order for climate policy to be successful it has to be integrated in decision-making and legislative processes in basically all policy areas and all levels of government. We analyse the extent of climate policy integration (CPI) in Austrian policy-making via in-depth expert interviews, both on the federal level as well as on the regional level using Styria as case study. The results show a broad range of perceptions regarding the degree of CPI in Austria. The consideration of climate policy issues generally depends on the core competence of the respective institution. Moreover, we found widely diverging views on whether CPI in Austria is too ambitious or too weak. Especially, potential negative impacts of climate policy on competitiveness or employment are seen to hamper a more ambitious implementation of mitigation policies.
Q58|Ratchet up or down? An experimental investigation of global public good provision in the United Nations Youth Associations Network|From a current perspective the Paris Agreement is not sufficient to limit the global mean temperature below 2êC above pre-industrial level as intended. The Agreement stipulates that parties review, compare and ratchet up efforts to combat climate change over time. Within this process, commitments heavily depend on what has been already achieved and this status-quo reflects an important reference point serving either as commitment advice or potential threat. We present an experimental study that is specifically designed to incorporate the effect of a status-quo via pre-existing contribution levels under endowment heterogeneity in a game in which participants make voluntary contributions to a public good. Our participants are sampled from the United Nations Youth Associations Network, representing participants from 51 countries. Members from developed and developing countries take decisions against the background of different initial levels of endowments and pre-existing contributions. Our analysis indicates that starting with ambitious pre-existing contribution levels can foster aggregate mitigation levels. Falling behind this status-quo contribution levels by reducing the public good appears to be a strong behavioral barrier. These observations might provide support for the basic structure of the Paris Agreement with Nationally Determined Contributions and the possibility to adjust them, even if a downward revision of national targets may not be precluded.
Q58|Are International Environmental Policies Effective? The Case of the Rotterdam and the Stockholm Conventions|This is the first paper to show that participation in an international environmental agreement has some effectiveness. Our identification strategy consists of applying difference-in-differences techniques in a panel data framework to various levels of data aggregation. We find that ratification of the Rotterdam Convention (RC) and the Stockholm Convention (SC) leads to a reduction in trade of hazardous substances from OECD to non-OECD countries. In particular, we find that when the exporter ratifies the RC, there is a reduction in the import of hazardous chemicals of about 7 percent. In the case of the SC, the results show significant reductions of around 16 percent in trade shipments of persistent organic pollutants. This reduction is more than double the effect found for the RC, which was expected due to a more restricted obligation imposed by the SC convention.
Q58|Emission Taxes, Firm Relocation, and Quality Differences|This paper studies the effect of an emission tax on the relocation decision in a duopoly with exogenous vertical product differentiation. We establish the relationship between quality difference, relocation cost, and marginal damage of emissions in a two-country-setting for three cases: An environmental tax set only by one country, non-cooperative environmental taxation in both countries, and coordinated environmental taxation. We consider two different timings: a time-consistent government, and a committed government. The higher the quality difference, the more likely it is that at least one firm relocates to the foreign country. A lower marginal damage decreases the equilibrium tax rate and lowers the incentive for relocation. If also the foreign country applies an emission tax, there is no equilibrium in which both firms relocate to the foreign country. If both governments set taxes non-cooperatively, the low-quality firm never relocates in equilibrium. If both countries set taxes cooperatively, it is more likely that both firms remain in the home country. Also, relocation of the low-quality firm only is a possible outcome of cooperative taxation.
Q58|Optimal fiscal policy with environmental tax and abatement spending in a model with pollution and utility-enhancing environmental quality: the case of Bulgaria|This paper characterized optimal fiscal policy - with environmental taxes, and public spending on abatement - in the presence of pollution, and evaluated it relative to the exogenous (observed) one in Bulgaria, an economy with a largely unreformed and polluting industry. The results are evaluated in light of the optimal environmental taxation of dirty production and the optimal spending on abatement, and the effect of those fiscal measures on the utility-enhancing environmental quality. To this end, a dynamic general-equilibrium model is calibrated to Bulgarian data (1999-2016). The main findings from the computational experiments performed are: (i) The optimal steady-state income tax rate is zero; (ii) The benevolent Ramsey planner provides twenty percent higher utility-enhancing environmental quality; (iii) The optimal level of carbon taxes is almost three times higher, and the optimal level of abatement spending is six times higher; (iv) The optimal steady-state consumption tax is twice lower.
Q58|How to Deal with the Risks of Phasing out Coal in Germany through National Carbon Pricing|Germany aims to phase out coal to achieve its 2030 climate target, for which a UK-style carbon price floor is considered. But this measure comes with risks related to the uncertainty about what price level is sufficient, and the waterbed effect arising from unilateral policy under the EU-ETS. Quantifying these risks we find that to be on the “safe side” target-wise, the price must be nearly twice as high as the reference scenario price (33 €/tCO2). Further, cancelling 1.1 GtCO2 of certificates and forming coalitions with other countries is essential to reduce the risk that EU climate policy will renationalize.
Q58|Gender and climate change: Do female parliamentarians make difference?|This paper investigates whether female political representation in national parliaments influences climate change policy outcomes. Based on data from a large sample of countries, we demonstrate that female representation leads countries to adopt more stringent climate change policies. We exploit a combination of full and partial identification approaches to suggest that this relationship is likely to be causal. Moreover, we show that through its effect on the stringency of climate change policies, the representation of females in parliament results in lower carbon dioxide emissions. Female political representation may be an underutilized tool for addressing climate change.
Q58|Energy Efficiency of Residential Buildings in the European Union – An Exploratory Analysis of Cross-Country Consumption Patterns|Despite a common EU directive on energy efficiency in residential buildings, levels of energy efficiency differ vastly across European countries. This article analyses these differences and investigates the effectiveness of different energy efficiency policies in place in those countries. We firstly use panel data to explain average yearly energy consumption per dwelling and country by observable characteristics such as climatic conditions, energy prices, income, and floor area. We then use the unexplained variation by sorting between-country differences as well as plotting within-country changes over time to identify better performing countries. These countries are analysed qualitatively in a second step. We conduct expert interviews and examine the legal rules regarding building energy efficiency. Based on our exploratory analysis we generate a number of hypotheses. First, we suggest that regulatory standards, in conjunction with increased construction activity, can be effective in the long run. Second, the results suggest that carbon taxation represents an effective means for energy efficiency.
Q58|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
Q58|Innovative green-technology SMEs as an opportunity to promote financial de-risking|The authors recommend that the G20 target innovative green-technology SMEs as an opportunity to promote financial de-risking while addressing Paris Agreement commitments and UN Sustainable Development Goals. This should be achieved by creating signals for private investors through: (1) a reporting system that can help monitor the scale-up of green-technology SMEs; (2) the use of public funds to signal innovative green-technology SMEs to investors; and (3) the inclusion of SMEs in the design of green finance platforms. By implementing these recommendations, the G20 will ensure that innovative, low-carbon SMEs become attractive, low(er)-risk investment opportunities for the private sector.
Q58|"International environmental governance and the Paris agreement on climate change: The adoption of the ""pledge and review"" governance approach"|"This paper explains the emergence of the ""pledge and review"" governance approach found in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in place of the ""obligatory targets and timetables"" approach found in the Kyoto Protocol, from a neo-Gramscian perspective. The main argument is that the adoption of pledge and review was a response to both the pressure to agree a new international treaty and the simultaneous divergence of interests and fragmentation of negotiation groups within the UNFCCC regime. In explaining this pressure to agree a new treaty, particular attention is given to the US and China, being the two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, looking at the key interests involved in shaping the recent move away from their long-held core negotiating positions of reluctance in accepting emission reductions. Shifts in the world political economy - the decline of US hegemony, the shift of power towards China and the East, and the emergence of a new multipolarity - and the complex nature of climate change as a problem were given as causes of fragmentation of the global climate regime. These power shifts all occur within the overarching dynamic of fossil capitalism, where the overuse of global sinks and the exploitation of natural resources remains unquestioned. Any attempt to address climate change emerges within this ideological framework of economic growth and economic development. This is continually apparent throughout the analysis, often influencing the actions of different interest groups and changes in the world political economy. When taken together, the pledge and review approach can be seen to have reinforced cooperation between nations and strengthened consensus building, facilitating the search for an agreement under differentiated interests. Being less fixed than obligatory quantitative emission reduction targets, this degree of flexibility is key to the functioning and adoption of the system. This flexibility allowed many of the key contentions within the negotiations to be sidestepped, in order for an agreement to be reached."
Q58|EU-Energieeffizienzpolitik: Wie eine kostengünstigere Dekarbonisierung gelingen könnte|"Auf EU-Ebene nehmen neue Gesetzesvorschläge für eine ""saubere Energiepolitik"" Form an. Es wird aktuell über die verstärkte Reduzierung von CO2-Emissionen sowie EU-weite Energieverbrauchsziele und daraus abzuleitende, nationale Energieeffizienzziele und -maßnahmen bis 2030 diskutiert. Doch was passiert, wenn die Zielvorgaben widersprüchlich werden und sich gegenseitig untergraben? Ein restriktives Energieverbrauchsziel kann zum großen Hindernis für die Erreichung des energie- und klimapolitischen Oberziels einer kostengünstigen Dekarbonisierung des Energiesystems werden. In den EU ETS Sektoren können falsch designte wirtschaftspolitische Instrumente zur Steigerung der Energieeffizienz eine möglichst kostengünstige Dekarbonisierung verhindern. In Sektoren außerhalb des EU ETS können Energieeffizienzziele und entsprechende wirtschaftspolitische Maßnahmen aber einen sinnvollen Beitrag leisten. Instrumente zur Steigerung der Energieeffizienz sollten darauf abzielen die technische Energieeffizienz zu verbessern. Vor diesem Hintergrund muss die Konzeption von Zielgrößen und Instrumenten verbessert werden. Die bisher verwendeten makroökonomischen Kennzahlen 'Energieeffizienz' beziehungsweise 'Energieintensität' sind als einfache politische Ziele ungenügend und verleiten zu falschen Schlüssen bezüglich des Erfolgs der eingesetzten wirtschaftspolitischen Instrumente. Die Kennzahlen müssen entscheidend verbessert werden zum Beispiel durch Berücksichtigung von Faktoren wie Konjunktur und Wirtschaftswachstum, dem Anteil von Erneuerbaren Energien oder dem von energieintensiven und weniger energieintensiven Branchen. Auch eine bessere Datenbasis ist vonnöten."
Q58|EU energy efficiency policy: How a more cost-efficient decarbonization could succeed|"At EU level, new proposed legislation for a clean-energy policy is being adopted. New policies are currently being discussed regarding the increased reduction of CO2 emissions, as well as EU-wide energy consumption targets for the year 2030 and national energy efficiency targets and measures to be derived from them. But what happens when the proposed objectives contradict and undermine each other? A restrictive energy consumption target can become a major obstacle to achieving the overall energy and climate-policy objective of cost-effective decarbonization of the energy system. Economic policy instruments for increasing energy efficiency in the EU ETS sectors can make it more difficult to achieve decarbonization at minimal cost. Energy efficiency targets and the corresponding economic policy measures can however make a worth-while contribution in sectors not included in the EU ETS. Instruments for increasing energy efficiency should aim at improving technical energy efficiency. With that in mind, the conception of quantitative targets and tools must be improved. The macroeconomic indicators for ""energy efficiency"" and ""energy intensity"" used thus far are unsatisfactory as simple political objectives and lead to wrong conclusions regarding the success of the economic policy instruments being used. The indicators must be decisively improved, for example, by considering factors such as business cycle and economic growth, as well as the proportion of renewable energy or of energy-intensive and less energy-intensive sectors. Furthermore, a better database is necessary."
Q58|EEG - eine neue Kostenabschätzung: Mögliche Entwicklungen der Förderkosten bis 2020 und 2025|In der vorliegenden Studie wird die zukünftige Entwicklung der EEG-Umlage prognostiziert. Für die Berechnung der Umlage werden die zukünftigen Förderkosten, welche sich aus der Diffe-renz der Auszahlungen an die Betreiber der Anlagen und den Einnahmen durch die Vermark-tung des Stroms aus erneuerbaren Energien ergeben, in drei Szenarien abgeschätzt. In einem Szenario werden die Annahmen beziehungsweise geplanten Ausbaupfade der Regierung für die Berechnung berücksichtigt. In zwei weiteren Szenarien werden eher pessimistische oder auch optimistische Annahmen bezüglich der Strompreisentwicklung und weiterer Faktoren ge-troffen. Somit erlaubt der Vergleich der drei Szenarien eine realistische Schätzung für einen Korridor, in dem sich die zukünftigen Kosten bewegen werden. [...]
Q58|Two years later: The EU circular economy package. An update|The European Commission aims to push forward the concepts of 'recycle, repair and re-use' as well as waste avoidance. Two years after adopting the Circular Economy Package, EU institutions finally agreed on new EU waste rules. Despite lower recycling targets as originally envisaged, most countries still have to push recycling to meet the goals. A single method of determining recycling rates was also decided, but an exemption rule will continue to allow for disparate recycling rates. Only ten countries including Germany are on track with their currently reported recycling rates to achieve the first goal of 55 per cent by 2025, assuming they keep up their recycling efforts of the past decade. Germany is leading the recycling hierarchy with 66 per cent, much more than on EU average. However, according to the new calculation method, Germany's recycling rate would drop to between 47 and 52 per cent. In this case, the German recycling rate would have to rise between 0.7 and 0.9 percentage points annually until 2035 to achieve 65 per cent. Looking back, Germany only managed 0.5 percentage points annually over the past decade based on the current method. Hence, Germany would have to push recycling and focus on more high-quality recycling. Fortunately, the country is a role model not only for its long recycling tradition and modern waste management, but also for its global leadership in recycling technologies.
