Q59|A global compass for the great divergence: emissions vs. production centers of gravity 1820-2008|We construct the world’s centers of gravity for human population, GDP and CO2 emissions by taking the best out of five recognized data sources covering the last two centuries. On the basis of a novel distorsion-free representation of these centers of gravity, we find a radical Western shift of GDP and CO2 emissions centers in the 19th century, in sharp contrast with the stability of the demographic center of gravity. Both GDP and emissions trends are reversed in the first half of the 20th century, after World War I for CO2 emissions, after World War II for GDP. Since then, both centers are moving eastward at an accelerating speed. These patterns are perfectly consistent with the lead of Western countries starting the industrial revolution, the gradual replacement of coal by oil and gas as alternative sources of energy, and the progressive catch up of Asian countries in the recent past.
Q59|Why Is Green Finance Important?|In 2017, global investment in renewables and energy efficiency declined by 3% and there is a risk that it will slow further; clearly fossil fuels still dominate energy investment. This could threaten the expansion of green energy needed to provide energy security and meet climate and clean air goals. Several developed and developing economies are still following pro-coal energy policies and the extra CO2 generated by new coal-fired power plants could more than wipe out any reductions in emissions made by other nations. Finance is the engine of development of infrastructure projects, including energy projects. Generally financial institutions show more interest in fossil fuel projects than green projects, mainly because there are still several risks associated with these new technologies and they offer a lower rate of return. If we want to achieve sustainable development goals, we need to open a new file for green projects and scale up the financing of investments that provide environmental benefits, through new financial instruments and new policies, such as green bonds, green banks, carbon market instruments, fiscal policy, green central banking, financial technologies, community-based green funds, etc., which are collectively known as “green finance”.
Q59|Why is Green Finance Important ?|In 2017, global investment in renewables and energy efficiency declined by 3% and there is a risk that it will slow further; clearly fossil fuels still dominate energy investment. This could threaten the expansion of green energy needed to provide energy security and meet climate and clean air goals. Several developed and developing economies are still following pro-coal energy policies and the extra CO2 generated by new coal-fired power plants could more than wipe out any reductions in emissions made by other nations. Finance is the engine of development of infrastructure projects, including energy projects. Generally financial institutions show more interest in fossil fuel projects than green projects, mainly because there are still several risks associated with these new technologies and they offer a lower rate of return. If they want to achieve sustainable development goals, they need to open a new file for green projects and scale up the financing of investments that provide environmental benefits, through new financial instruments and new policies, such as green bonds, green banks, carbon market instruments, fiscal policy, green central banking, financial technologies, community-based green funds, etc., which are collectively known as â€œgreen financeâ€ .
Q59|Acquiring ?green? competencies in the study process|Research background: The 7th Environment Action Plan promotes a long-term objective of ?Living well, within the limits of our planet? based on a 2050 vision centred on ecological limits, a circular economy, and society?s resilience. It is of a great importance to gather the understanding of global trends and risks as well as future skills that are crucial for a well-developed circular economy. It is important to integrate the life-cycle thinking throughout all the stages of economy and edu-cation plays one of the key roles in ensuring comprehensive transition towards circular economy model.Purpose of the article: The aim of the current paper is to identify what skills, knowledge and competencies students should acquire in the study process and to formulate guidelines for human resource development through higher education according to requirements of a circular economy.Methods: The research is based on theoretical analysis of the scientific literature in circular economy field, analysis of statistical data and questionnaire survey.Findings & Value added: The surveyed business executives (1829 respondents in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia) point out that informational and educational measures are needed on the circular economy. Decision making, system thinking, learning by doing, competences, skills and knowledge, values, awareness raising and problem based learning were identified by respondents as the most important skills that should be acquired during the study process. The findings support the need for developing a study course with integrated the life-cycle thinking which will help to develop professional qualities and competencies of future professionals.
Q59|Eco-funds based on a Portfolio Considering Corporate Carbon Productivity|Socially responsible investment (SRI) involves investors selecting companies based on their level of social responsibility. An eco-fund is an SRI-type investment trust that invests in environment-friendly companies, also known as ?eco-excellent? companies. In many cases, the process of choosing the companies to be included in the trust is not transparent and, due to subjective decisions by fund managers, it is not clear how the investment rate is determined.In this study, we propose four eco-funds and evaluate their performance. Since the risk of the eco-fund should be distributed, the investment rate will be determined so that the percentage of the top brands is low. The portfolio should consist of brands with high efficiency in environmental investment.First, we evaluate a company?s environmental management capability and profitability using quantitative data such as the amount of sales, greenhouse gas emissions, and ROE (return on equity). We then determine a set of brands for the eco-funds to invest in. To determine the investment rate for each stock or portfolio, an environmental minimum variance frontier is calculated.The proposed eco-funds are (1) EEC fund, (2) Beta fund, (3) Expanded beta fund, and (4) Environmental index fund. (1) The EEC fund invests in brands that perform well both in terms of environmental management based on carbon productivity and profitability based on ROE. (2) The Beta fund invests in brands that perform well both in environmental management based on carbon productivity beta values and earnings efficiency based on ROE. (3) The Expanded beta fund invests in brands that perform well only in environmental management based on carbon productivity beta values; it includes more brands than the Beta fund. (4) The Environmental index fund invests in all the brands considered and is a benchmark to measure the performance of the other eco-funds.
Q59|Waste Recycling - Possible Solutions for the Romanian Challenges|Local authorities’ corruption, garbage companies’ violation of laws, the lack of a mandatory waste collection infrastructure and the disinterest of part of the population for environmental protection are the reasons for recycling only 3% of municipal waste in Romania. A report from the European Environment Agency shows that our country is a quaint for the recovery of waste. The first part of the paper tries to present the state of recycle in Romania and the reasons why Romania is in the last place in Europe to recycle. At the end of the paper, as conclusions, are presented some possible solutions for the Romanian recycling challenges.
Q59|Temperature and Growth: A Panel Analysis of the United States|We document that seasonal temperatures have significant and systematic effects on the U.S. economy, both at the aggregate level and across a wide cross section of economic sectors. This effect is particularly strong for the summer: a 1oF increase in the average summer temperature is associated with a reduction in the annual growth rate of state‐level output of 0.15 to 0.25 percentage points. We combine our estimates with projected increases in seasonal temperatures and find that rising temperatures could reduce U.S. economic growth by up to one‐third over the next century.
Q59|Reducing the anchoring bias in multiple question CV surveys|The elicitation format is a crucial aspect of Contingent Valuation (CV) surveys and can impact their reliability. This paper contributes to the extensive debate on WTP (Willingness To Pay) elicitation formats by assessing whether the Circular Payment Card (CPC) can reduce anchoring on respondents' previous answers under multiple elicitation questions. This new format uses a visual pie-chart representation without start or end points: respondents spin the circular card in any direction until they find the section that best matches their WTP. We used a CV survey based on two ways of reducing risks associated with flooding, each randomly presented first to half of the respondents, to test the absolute performance of CPC. We presented a second survey on two social insurance schemes for subjects currently uninsured to respondents randomly split into three subgroups. Each group's WTP was elicited using one of three formats: Open-Ended (OE), standard Payment Card (PC) and the new CPC. The two insurance schemes were always proposed in the same order, and we assessed the relative performance of CPC by comparing anchoring across respondents. Our results provide evidence that CPC is likely to reduce anchoring in multiple elicitation questions and that respondents may rely on different heuristic decisions when giving WTP in the OE and in the two PC formats.
Q59|Light Pollution, Sleep Deprivation, and Infant Health at Birth|This is the first study that uses a direct measure of skyglow, an important aspect of light pollution, to examine its impact on infant health at birth. We find evidence of reduced birth weight, shortened gestational length and even preterm births. Specifically, increased nighttime brightness, characterized by being able to see only one-third to one-fourth of the stars that are visible in the absence of artificial light, is associated with an increase in the likelihood of a preterm birth by as much as 12.8 percent, or an increase of approximately 45,000 preterm births nationwide annually. Our findings add to the literature on the impact of in utero and early-life exposure to pollution, which thus far has focused primarily on air pollution. The unique feature of our identification strategy to determine a causal effect is the application of Walker's Law in physics, which provides a scientific basis to estimate skyglow. We use estimated skyglow as an instrumental variable to address the endogeneity problem associated with the skyglow variable. In addition, our study shows that increased skyglow is associated with less sleep, indicating a likely biological mechanism that links sleep deprivation to light-pollution induced circadian disruption. This result, combined with the literature on the adverse effects of sleep disorders, completes the causal chain underlying our finding on the adverse health impact of skyglow. Our study has important policy implications for current installation of LED streetlights in many U.S. municipalities, highlighting the necessity of minimizing skyglow contributed by streetlights.
Q59|A Multi-dimensional Measure of Environmental Behavior: Exploring the Predictive Power of Connectedness to Nature, Ecological Worldview and Environmental Concern|Abstract In this study we examine the multi-dimensional structure of environmental behavior and its potential domains. Factor analysis reveals six behavioral domains: civic actions, policy support, recycling, transportation choices, behaviors in a household setting and consumerism. We use the Connectedness to Nature and Inclusion of Nature in Self scales to measure connection with nature, the New Environmental Paradigm to measure ecological worldviews, and Environmental Motives Scale to assess people’s environmental concern. We further explore the predictive power of connectedness to nature, ecological worldview, and environmental concern for explaining the diverse behavioral domains. Connectedness to nature and ecological worldview were more predictive of civic actions, recycling, household behaviors, and consumerism than were environmental concerns. In the case of policy support and transportation choices, environmental concerns explained more variance than the other constructs.
Q59|Sustainable management of fish stock: An assessment of small-scale fishing in Greece|The aim of this study was to identify the main métiers practiced by gillnet, trammel net and combined net fishery in the Kalymnos Island. The catch was obtained every 15 days of the small-scale fleet for the period from February 2013 to May 2014 by interviews during unloading. A total 315 fishing operations were recorded. Multivariate analysis applied to either species landings composition or economic revenue. The most important métiers identified were those B. boops with gillnet, intense fishing activity during December-February and mesh size 26 mm, métier which targeting S. porcus and S. officinalis with fishing gear trammel net, intense fishing activity during April-May and mesh size 26 mm. Both of these métiers appeared high produce and income. The results of this study confirm the multi-species natural of small-scale fishing and fishing activity in the area of Kalymnos specific difference from the other area in Greece.
Q59|"Устойчиво производство и потребление – ролята на стандартизацията, ИК “Ран-Р”, София, 2018 (Sustainable production and consumption - the role of standardization, Ed. ""Ran-R"", Sofia, 2018)<BR>[Sustainable production and consumption - the role of standardization, Ed. ""Ran-R"", Sofia, 2018]"|"In 2015, the UN New Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 was adopted and seventeen global goals were developed integrating the economic, environmental and social dimensions of sustainable development. Goal 12 is defined as ""Ensuring Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns"" (UN Global Goals 2030). It has a central role to play in tackling global consumption of resources and the environmental impacts associated with it, as well as numerous social and economic problems. The promotion of sustainable patterns of consumption and production and sustainable lifestyle is linked to the creation of policies involving a large number of stakeholders which in turn will offer innovative policy solutions to sustainable development problems. Against the backdrop of a variety of policy initiatives at international, European and national level, there is a need in Bulgaria for policies encouraging sustainable production and consumption. Standards have the potential to play a significant role in these processes, amid a wide range of regulations and existing social norms relating to sustainable consumption and production. A number of authors emphasize that the current development of standardization builds on its conventional focus on technical facilities or systems with the inclusion of social and environmental themes (Bistro and Klintman, 2011, Brunsson and Jacobson, 2000, Busch, 2000, Tamm Hallstrom, 2008). They support the idea that standardization emerges as a common new form of regulation in today's globalized world alongside traditional legislation and social norms (Bostrom and Klintman, 2011; Brunsson and Jacobson, 2000). In their entirety, standards build a ""new institutional infrastructure"" for organizational sustainability and social responsibility (Rasche 2015; Waddock, 2008). The monograph aims to identify the mechanisms by which standards support the implementation of sustainable patterns of consumption and production. In order to achieve the stated objective, the study examines the problems posed both theoretically and by providing a solid empirical material oriented to the Bulgarian organizations in their national context. The monographic work addresses current issues of sustainable consumption and production patterns through voluntary standardization mechanisms as ""soft"" regulatory instruments - an area still under-researched on a national and regional scale. The presented studies are among the few similar analyses in this field. They concern issues related to the management models of Bulgarian organizations placed under regulatory pressure in the field of environmental protection and social responsibility and the uncertain choice of the voluntary approaches proposed by international and European standards. At the same time, these studies also look at Bulgarian consumers who have the right to ""be heard"" in the development and implementation of government policies, laws and standards for sustainable consumption and production. The publication is a result of the author's constant interest in the scientific study of the problems of sustainable development in the country in the last ten years. The research work, both individual and joint in a team of fellow researchers – the University of National and World Economy - Sofia is manifested in the implementation of numerous projects, establishing cooperation and membership in the thematic networks in the field of sustainable consumption and production. The monograph could help all those interested in sustainable consumption and production problems - from Bulgarian consumers searching for their sustainable behaviour patterns, non-governmental organizations and consumer associations, through business organizations, certification and training organizations and reaches the state institutions setting out the policies and tools for implementation of these models."
Q59|Anticipated international environmental agreements|Consider a situation in which countries anticipate an international environmental agreement (IEA) to be in effect sometime in the future. What is the impact of the future IEA on current emissions after its announcement? We show that the answer to this question is ambiguous.
Q59|Incumbents' Asymmetric Responses to Environmentally Friendly Entrants in the Automotive Industry|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
Q59|Environmental Governance and Policy in Kazakhstan|We provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of environmental governance and policy in Kazakhstan as the country is assumed to have a leading role in Central Asia in terms of green growth and sustainable development. The overview of the environmental and institutional framework in the country reveals that the significant steps towards an improvement of environmental governance have been undertaken.
Q59|The improvement of the company’s environmental performance through the application of Green Lean/Lean and Green approach|Green Lean (Lean and Green) approach is based on the lean method. As the literature and case studies show the Japanese quality improvement tools can be used in environmental management as well as in quality management. Companies that focus on sustainability may use those tools and methods to improve its processes and eliminate green waste at the same time. The research concentrates on the examples of the companies that started to implement the Green Lean (Lean and Green). The purpose of the article is to present how the application of Green Lean (Lean and Green) approach improves the environmental performance of the company and what are the benefits. Critical review of the literature, observation, interviews in selected researched companies. By identifying and eliminating the green waste i.a. in energy, materials, garbage, water, emissions, biodiversity, transportation researched companies are minimizing its negative impact on environment. As the research shows the employees should be motivated and involved in the process so does the management to make it work. Green Lean (Lean and Green) approach enables the companies to perform in profitable and sustainable way at the same time.
Q59|Penelitian Serat Alami Untuk Mendukung Pengembangan Industri Textil di Indonesia|Indonesian textile industry is based on imported raw material, more than 94% cotton fiber must be imported. Ramie fiber has the same characteristic as cotton fiber and fulfills the condition for human clothes. Textile industry is developing to contribute to people economic welfare. Ramie fiber can substitute cotton fiber. Mostly Indonesian land has the agro-climatic characteristic which is unsuitable for cotton plant cultivation, but is suitable for ramie plant cultivation. Ramie is rapid growing plant, it is harvested every 60 days,so it needs more water to solve nutrition available and potential in the soil. Cultivation the natural fiber producing plant is considered very possible with some amendment in some environmental condition.
Q59|L’impegno della UE per l’ambiente e il clima: l’esperienza del programma LIFE<BR>[How European Union supports climate action and environmental protection: LIFE programme experience]|European Union addresses environmental and climatic issues through different instruments (research and innovation programs, various categories of structural funds, etc. Among them, LIFE (L'Instrument Financier pour l'Environnement) is the EU’s financial instrument supporting environmental, nature conservation and climate action projects in EU countries. Since 1992, LIFE has co-financed 4306 projects and in 25 years contributed to ensuring environmental protection all over Europe.
Q59|Critiques on ‘‘Mining and Local Corruption in Africa’’|"This is a research critiques on ""Mining and Local Corruption in Africa"" by Knutsen, Carl H; Kotsadam Andreas, Olsen Eivind, Wig Tore"
Q59|Effectiveness and efficiency of European Regional Development Fund on separate waste collection: evidence from Italian regions by a stochastic frontier approach|Abstract The purpose of the present paper is to analyze the results of the impact of European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) in Convergence regions over the 2007–2013 on separate collection rate of Italian regions. The aim is twofold: propose a groundbreaking analysis that allows us to control both for the effectiveness of the Regulation (EC) No. 1080/2006, by a Difference in differences equation (DID), and the Regions’ efficiency in the separate collection process, by a stochastic frontier analysis (SFA). Specifically, the SFA allows us to model the DID equation in order to take account the regions’ efficiency in the separate collection process in terms of institutional quality. In particular, we use a panel with two dimensions: temporal—9 yearly observations from 2004 to 2012; and cross-sectional—20 regions. The estimates suggest that ERDF have not contributed to reducing the structural divide in Italy and its managerial slack has triggered in the failure of the convergence objective. Policy implications are discussed.
Q59|Climate Change and Social Inequality|This paper offers a unifying conceptual framework for understanding the relationship between climate change and “within-country inequalities,” referred here collectively as “social inequality.” Available evidence indicates that this relationship is characterized by a vicious cycle, whereby initial inequality causes the disadvantaged groups to suffer disproportionately from the adverse effects of climate change, resulting in greater subsequent inequality. The paper identifies three main channels through which the inequality-aggravating effect of climate change materializes, namely (a) increase in the exposure of the disadvantaged groups to the adverse effects of climate change; (b) increase in their susceptibility to damage caused by climate change; and (c) decrease in their ability to cope and recover from the damage suffered. The paper presents evidence to illustrate each of the processes above. It also notes that the same analytical framework can be used to discuss the relationship between climate change and inequality across countries. Finally, it points to the ways in which the analysis can be helpful in making relevant policy decisions.
Q59|Regional analysis of sanitation performance in India|India bears a disproportionate burden of open defecation in spite of investing more and more funds and ushering in several institutional efforts including the Swachh Bharat Mission in the recent past. A large share of rural households still lack basic sanitation facilities in India and members practice open defecation. Thia study endeavours to examine the existing anomaly between meagre sanitation productivity and enhanced resource allocation in rural sanitation in India. The study attempts to develop an instrument to monitor the differential regional performances across India.
Q59|Sanitation challenges of the poor in urban and rural settings: Case studies of Bengaluru City and rural North Karnataka|Bengaluru city faces severe challenges in providing sanitation infrastructure for the urban poor. Similarly, we have villages in North Karnataka that encounter problems of toilet access and related challenges. This paper addresses concerns both in city and rural contexts. We surveyed 400 respondents across 20 slums and 500 respondents in six districts of North Karnataka through survey instruments and focus group discussions (FGDs) to understand the problems with respect to toilet access and usage. Open defecation (OD) prevails in spite of several interventions made. In the urban contexts, lack of usage was largely due to technical discrepancies, behavioural concerns, space issue, water scarcity and poor maintenance of toilets. In the rural contexts, apart from water scarcity, restricted space, poor maintenance, cultural habits and financial constraints dominated non-usage of toilets. This paper captures these issues in-depth and provides some options in technologies and improved governance based on study findings and review of case studies. In the urban areas too, the topography of the slum location, operation and maintenance and apt technology plays an important role while in the rural areas, promoting education and awareness creates a positive impact on usage of toilets. Also, institutionalising the process of construction with transparency and accountability at various stages matters to ensure proper construction of toilets.
Q59|Farmers and their groves: How efficient are farms with forested land?| This study examines the performance of the forested land ownership by farmers in Poland this paper compares the efficiency of farms reporting a portion of their operated land as a forest with those that do not own any forested land. Using FADN data, the study focuses first on cost efficiency, which was estimated using the fixed effects stochastic cost frontier model (Kumbakhar and Knox Lovell, 2003). A generalized multiproduct translog cost function (Caves, Christensen, and Tretheway, 1980) was selected to represent the deterministic part of the cost function because it imposes fewer a-priori restrictions than other functional forms commonly used for the task. The efficiency scores (i.e., the fixed effects) were subject to further analysis, to establish the differences between farms with and without forest land (where forest land was measured as the proportion of the total farm area that was under forest land). The results strongly indicated, both in aggregate and considering estimates by farm type, that most of the farms with forest land were relatively less efficient than farms without them. Because the average farm size has been steadily increasing (although it remains relatively small) in response to a decreasing farm numbers in Poland, while the commercial agricultural production contracts in some peripheral areas without creating a shortage of food or agricultural commodities, there is an opportunity to reallocate land from its current uses to reforestation on farms already managing small groves. The speed of reallocating land will, however, depend greatly on ability of forested land to generate a stream of income. Given the FADN data, the transfer of all remaining agricultural land operated by farms with forested acreage to reforestation would add about 170 thousand hectares of privately owned forests in Poland. Additionally, the transition of farms owing woodlands may lead to their new role in the national environmental policy and efforts to cut the greenhouse gas emissions.
Q59|Spatiotemporal management under heterogeneous damage and uncertain parameters. An agent-based approach| Species are often viewed as either beneficial or detrimental. The determination of beneficial or detrimental depends on the evaluator, often with disagreement within disciplines such as agriculture or wildlife biology. One common argument against a species revolves around its status as native or non-native, with the latter as a negative characteristic. Defining native and non-native is highly subjective, with a common North American delineation as an introduction before and after Columbus, respectively (Nelson 2010). However, in the past, native species such as the American buffalo (Bison bison) have been targets of eradication campaigns and even today white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and Canadian geese (Branta Canadensis) populations are managed to limit the damage they inflict on agriculture. It is also acknowledged that these example species have intrinsic value in the ecosystem and value as a recreationally hunted species in the case of white-tailed deer and Canadian geese. Non-native species can be viewed beneficially, as most agricultural species are introduced, for recreational use, and even as a replacement for extirpated native species (Schlaepfer, Sax and Olden 2011; Zivin, Hueth and Zilberman 2000). In the US, one contentious species is feral swine (Sus scrofa). Federal removal and control efforts are underway as some private landowners encourage their growth on their property (Bevins et al. 2014; Bannerman and Cole 2014). Feral swine are a vector for diseases, cause ecosystem damage, and inflict physical losses to agriculture (Pimentel, Zuniga and Morrison 2005; Cozzens 2010; Seward et al. 2004). However, feral swine are a valuable recreational species. With benefits and costs often accruing to different people, conflict over management is inevitable. As in most externality problems, property lines do not inhibit damage. Unique to most externality problems is the way the damage causing agent can multiply and spread unaided once introduced. Stakeholders include agricultural landowners, recreational landowners, private conservationists, and government entities. Agriculturalists may be sensitive to crop damage and unwilling to sell hunting licenses on their property to offset the damage. Recreational users may enjoy the opportunity to hunt feral swine or may be sensitive to habitat damage and predation of other game species. Private individuals may also own land with the expressed purpose of native habitat conservation. This division between agriculturalist, recreationists, and conservationists is in reality too strong. Landowners are often a mix of the three. Landowners may also exhibit inconsistent preferences or a lack of information, implying a need to relax rationality assumptions. Rational choice theory, or the rationality assumptions, require that a consumer's actions exhibit completeness, transitivity, and perfect information. Finally, government entities are responsible for many goals including preservation of native species, maintenance of protective structures such as levees, and preventing outbreaks of dangerous diseases. These varying objectives can result in inconsistent policymaker actions (Karp et al. 2015). Management decisions by one stakeholder will affect the outcomes of all stakeholders. The variety of opinions and the interaction between landowners, government agencies, and the swine themselves make an optimal policy solution, here defined as the policy solution with the highest total welfare gain, hard to determine. Previous work has ignored interaction between people and swine, spatial issues, temporal characteristics of feral swine spread, or the variety of values held among stakeholders. To address these shortcomings, an agent-based modeling approach is used to determine the optimal management solution, as well as how varying stakeholder opinions and rationality can change the optimal solution. Agent-based modeling promises to be able to model a rich diversity in objectives across time and space (Heckbert, Baynes and Reeson 2010). Applications of agent-based modeling demonstrate its capabilities with interactive heterogeneous agents and spatiotemporally explicit modeling (Evans and Kelley 2004; Schreinemachers et al. 2009; Berger and Troost 2014). Agents can be modeled maintaining traditional compatibility with economic theory (e.g. utility maximizing rational agents), with varying degrees of rationality and awareness of their surroundings, and established tools such as linear programming can be used to help agents make decisions (Berger 2001; Schreinemachers et al. 2009). ABMs have been shown to be suited for analysis of policy intended to address previously unseen events such as the effects of climate change or a new trade agreement (Berger 2001; Berger and Troost 2014). This paper will demonstrate the importance of the interaction between individuals across time and space over management decisions in a way that has not previously been published. Management paths have been established for heterogeneous groups of agriculturalists, recreational land users, private conservationists and governmental entities with varying motivations. The setting for the simulations is a hypothetical rural environment with the potential for feral swine and damage to crops, livestock, and habitat. Results from these simulations are being compared to situations with individuals of heterogeneous preferences. Preliminary results indicate that both locality and individual characteristics matter in determining the optimal outcome. The code for the ABM is being written in a program that provides striking visuals in addition to the quantitative data needed for analysis. These visualizations, the research goals, and the subject matter of feral swine have not failed to generate substantial discussion when presented. The model, properly calibrated, can be used to simulate a potential management area to determine the best path forward. Results of the analysis are expected to inform policymakers to help guide hunting license protocol and public management efforts to manage feral swine in a humane, environmentally sustainable, and socially responsible manner.
Q59|Valuing the Absence of Feral Swine for US Corn, Soybean, Wheat, Rice, and Peanut Producers and Consumers. A Partial Equilibrium Approach|" Conflicts between humans and wildlife are manifestations of inevitable divergences between human interests and wildlife presence and survival. Those conflicts can range from property damage to threatening and predatory behavior (USDA APHIS 2015). In the US, considerable financial resources are dedicated to managing human-wildlife conflicts. In 2014, the USDA allocated $106 million to the Wildlife Services division of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service for a portion of the federally funded human-wildlife conflict mitigation efforts (USDA 2015). Among policy makers and researchers interested in human-wildlife conflicts, one species of particular recent interest is feral swine. The USDA has dedicated $20 million to support the ambitious goals to ""eliminate feral swine from two States [sic] every three to five years and stabilize feral swine damage within 10 [sic] years"" and to these and supporting efforts (Bannerman and Cole 2014). Feral swine are known to cause damage to crops among other types of property damage. Pimentel, Zuniga, and Morrison (2005) is the only publication with a nationwide estimate of feral swine damage in the US, estimating $800 million in crop and environmental damages per year. Damage estimates such as Pimentel, Zuniga, and Morrison (2005) are part of the foundation of knowledge required to arrive at an economic value of removal. However, they do not reflect a more complex reality. When crops are damaged, the quantity available to be brought to market decreases. Markets adjust to the lower quantities with higher prices. Farms suffering damage have less to sell at higher market prices and farms that do not suffer damage have the same quantity at higher market prices. Welfare measures such as changes in producer and consumer surplus describe if individuals are better or worse off from a given policy action or market change. To-date, there are no studies that assess the welfare implications of feral swine crop damage. To address this need in the literature we ask, what are the welfare effects to US crop producers and consumers from an immediate removal of feral swine in nine of the hardest hit states in the southeastern US? Additionally, what would be the distribution of those effects among consumers and farmers in different states? A partial equilibrium model is built based on historical production data in all US counties with a crop insurance program for Corn, Soybeans, Wheat, Rice, and Peanuts from USDA NASS, feral swine presence data from USDA APHIS, and feral swine damage estimates from a recent USDA survey conducted in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas. This model is used to create a counterfactual to the current reality of feral swine damage to value the absence of feral swine in the previously mentioned states. One framework for measuring the effects of feral swine crop damage is an Equilibrium Displacement Model (EDM). The EDM is a linear abstraction of supply and demand functions that describe the transition from one equilibrium to another without defining an exact functional form (Wohlgenant 2011; Wohlgenant 1993). The versatility of the EDM has allowed them to be used to examine export demand effects on grain, feed products, and livestock using genetically modified organisms (Preckel, Harrington and Dubman 2002), returns to public research (Alston, Norton and Pardey 1995), welfare effects of the Washington State University wheat breeding program (Nogueira et al. 2015), country of origin labeling (Brester, Marsh and Atwood 2004), and animal disease outbreaks (Pendell et al. 2007), among other uses. These varied applications are made possible by the flexibility inherent to the EDM. The literature has examples of EDMs with more than one product and location to serve as examples. Perrin and Scobie (1981) use an EDM with both multiple markets and price wedges to study the options for increasing nutrient consumption among Colombia's poor. More recently, Wohlgenant (2011) detailed several different variants of EDMs with multiple products and markets including vertical integration and joint products. Alston, Norton, and Pardey (1995) described several variants of EDMs with multiple markets including products related in consumption and products related in production as well as other models with multiple geographical markets. Nogueira et al. (2015) created a model that had both multiple products and multiple markets. Each of these models took a slightly different approach to measuring welfare changes. Our model closely follows the lead of Nogueira et al. (2015) in covering the products listed above in more than one place. Due to the price decrease resulting from the quantity increase, preliminary results indicate welfare losses for producers in states without feral swine, welfare gains or even losses for producers in states with feral swine, and unambiguous gains for consumers from a removal of feral swine damage. Final results will establish upper limits for what should be paid to control feral swine based on crop damage justification."
Q59|Környezetvédelmi Kihívások A Sportban| Az elmúlt két évtizedben egyre nagyobb teret nyert a sport és a környezetvédelem kapcsolatának vizsgálata, de még mindig sokakban felmerül a kérdés: hogyan értelmezhető a sport szerepe a környezetvédelem területén, és a környezetvédelem szerepe a sportban? Az élet más területeihez hasonlóan a sport sem vonhatja ki magát a fenntarthatatlan folyamatok megváltoztatásának szükségessége alól. Annak ellenére, hogy a sport fenntartható emberi tevékenységet jelent, az ehhez kapcsolódó szolgáltatások (pl.: vízhasználat, energiaigény, turizmus, közlekedés stb.) fenntarthatatlanok, jelentős mértékben igénylik a zöldítést. Jelen tanulmány célja, hogy egyrészt bemutassa a fenntartható fejlődés környezeti elemeinek megjelenését a sportban, másrészt, hogy jó gyakorlatokkal alátámasztva ismertesse, hogyan integrálódhatnak a környezetvédelmi erőfeszítések, zöld intézkedések egy-egy sportrendezvény szervezésébe, stadion/aréna üzemeltetésébe, klubok működtetésébe, vagy éppen vezető piaci pozícióban lévő multinacionális sportszergyártó vállalatok termelő tevékenységébe. --------------------------------------------------------------------- In the past two decades the examination of the relations between sports and environmental protection has grained large ground, however, the question still arises in many: How can the role of sports be interpreted in the field of environmental protection and how can we see the role of environmental protection in the light of sports? Similarly to other aspects of life, it is necessary to make some changes in sports in order to ensure its sustainability. Although sports mean sustainable human activities, services connected to it (e.g. use of water, energy demand, tourism, transport, etc.) are unsustainable and need remarkable steps to make the environment greener. The aim of this study is firstly to show the presence of the environmental factors of the sustainable development in sports. Secondly – supported by practical examples – to elaborate on how environmental efforts and green provisions can be integrated into organizing a sports event, maintaining a stadium/arena, operating clubs, or productive activities of leading multinational sports goods manufacturers.
Q59|The impact of foresight in a transboundary pollution game|We study the impact of foresight in a transboundary pollution game; i.e. the ability of a country to control its emissions taking into account the relationship between current emissions and future levels of pollution and thus on future damages. We show that when all countries are myopic, i.e., choose the ‘laisser-faire’ policy, their payoffs are smaller than when all countries are farsighted, i.e., non-myopic. However, in the case where one myopic country becomes farsighted we show that the welfare impact of foresight on that country is ambiguous. Foresight may be welfare reducing for the country that acquires it. This is due to the reaction of the other farsighted countries to that country’s acquisition of foresight. The country that acquires foresight reduces its emissions while the other farsighted countries extend their emissions. The overall impact on total emissions is ambiguous. Moreover, our results suggest that incentive mechanisms, that involve a very small (possibly zero) present value of transfers, can play an important role in inducing a country to adopt a farsighted behavior and diminishing the number of myopic countries. These incentives would compensate the myopic country for the short-run losses incurred from the acquisition of foresight and can be reimbursed by that country from the gains from foresight that it enjoys in the long run.
Q59|A consistent two-factor model for pricing temperature derivatives|In the past decade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began to trade weather derivatives to hedge weather risk. The pricing of weather derivatives is challenging since the underlying is not tradable and thus classical arbitrage approaches have to be used with caution. In typical pricing approaches all information available to the market is assumed to be incorporated in the underlying and thus forward-looking information about non-tradable assets such as meteorological forecasts is often ignored. In this article, we analyze a new pricing methodology for temperature derivatives that accounts for forward-looking information. More precisely, we provide an empirical back-up for the theoretical framework of so-called consistent factor models for temperature forecast curves introduced previously in the literature and put this pricing approach into practice. First, we perform a thorough statistical analysis of meteorological forecast curve data. Second, based on this analysis we propose a specific consistent two-factor model, derive explicit temperature derivative prices, and calibrate the market price of risk (MPR). The power of the model is demonstrated against alternative pricing models. This confirms that at least parts of the irregularity of the MPR observed in earlier studies are not due to irregular risk perception but rather due to information misspecification.
Q59|Contribution of suppression difficulty and lessons learned in forecasting fire suppression operations productivity: A methodological approach|We propose an economic analysis using utility and productivity, and efficiency theories to provide fire managers a decision support tool to determine the most efficient fire management programs levels. By incorporating managers’ accumulated fire suppression experiences (capitalized experience) in the analysis we help fire managers determine fire suppression productivity and efficient budget allocation. Furthermore, monitoring of the management index (MI) helps identify operational deficiencies in the different districts where the analysis is applied. This is so because internally the area contraction factor (ACF) provides information regarding the effectiveness of fire suppression operations by including a comparison ratio between the area affected and the potential fire area without suppression actions. We used the Almonaster fire that occurred in 2008 in the Huelva Province, Spain as a case study to test the applicability of the methodology. Our evaluation showed that the combinations of firefighting resources assigned to the Almonaster fire resulted in a fire suppression efficiency of only 33%, measured as the ratio between damages avoided and suppression costs involved.
Q59|Socio-demographics, implicit attitudes, explicit attitudes, and sustainable consumption in supermarket shopping|The aim of this research is to examine whether socio-demographics, implicit and explicit attitudes towards the environment predict sustainable consumer behaviour, measured using supermarket loyalty card data. The article uses an Implicit Association Test (IAT) and Likert scales to gauge implicit and explicit attitudes towards sustainable consumption in a real consumer sample, and measures demographic characteristics of participants. Results indicate that level of education is a key predictor of an aggregate measure of sustainable consumption, with a small part of this influence mediated by level of explicit environmental concern for climate change. Econometric modelling shows that explicit and implicit attitudes influence consumer decisions differently in specific food categories. Results, obtained with real consumer data, call into question the accepted socio-demographic profile of the green consumer and help identify conditions under which pro-environmental attitudes predict sustainable consumption.
Q59|Impact of economic, financial, and institutional factors on CO2 emissions: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa economies|Given the acceleration of economic changes in Sub-Saharan Africa economies (SSA), a better understanding of the relationship between economic growth and pollution is essential for policy makers. The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of economic, financial and institutional developments on CO2 emissions for 25 SSA countries over the period 1996–2010. We use the reduced form modeling to control unobserved heterogeneity specific to countries and the GMM dynamic panel method to control endogeneity. We found no -evidence in our investigation for the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) hypothesis. Indeed, a monotonically increasing relationship with GDP is found more appropriate for CO2 emissions. The results confirm that political stability, government effectiveness, democracy, and control of corruption influence negatively CO2 emissions. On the contrary, regulatory quality and rule of law have a positive effect on CO2 emissions. The results confirm the importance of institutional frameworks in reducing carbon dioxide emissions since institutional quality not only affects carbon dioxide emissions directly, but also indirectly via economic growth and trade openness.
Q59|Transfers and the Samuelson Rule in Stock Externality Provision¡ªWhy Do We Need Them Both?|This paper examines the relationship between the Samuelson rule for efficient provision of stock externality and unilateral transfers for equalization of mitigation costs among the agents. Using a generic model of stock externality provisions, we proved that the revised Samuelson rule that allows transfers is a necessary and sufficient condition for efficient provision of stock externalities. In addition, selection of social welfare weights of the agents plays a key role in directions and magnitudes of the transfers. We discuss the implications of the revised Samuelson rule in economic modeling of climate change, an empirical case of stock externality, through numerical simulations in the RICE model.
Q59|Fungi diversity in Swedish forests: impact of site quality on standing volume and variability in forest growth|The impact of biodiversity on forest ecosystem function and provision of ecosystem services has been investigated by many studies, but not the stability in these impacts. This paper calculates the effect of a fungi indicator, forest site quality, on standing volume and variability in forest growth in different forest regions in Sweden. We account for management practices, make use of time series data for a period of approximately 50 years, and estimate forest growth functions totally and for different regions in Sweden. Uncertainty is calculated as the conditional variance in forest growth rate, and the biodiversity indicator together with management practices are used as explanatory variables. Fully modified OLS is used to account for serial correlation and non-stationarity in the variables. The results show that the fungi diversity indicator adds positively to forest growth and growth rate, but increases uncertainty in the growth rate.
Q59|Green Goods: Are They Good or Bad News for the Environment? Evidence from a Laboratory Experiment on Impure Public Goods|Abstract Green goods such as recycled paper stationary or carbon-neutral flights provide increasingly popular examples of impure public goods. Motivated by theoretical treatments of green goods as a bundle of private and public characteristics in proportions fixed by the provider, we design an experiment with two linked treatments to test how the presence of impure public goods affects behaviour towards public good causes. We set parameters, such that from a standard economic perspective the presence of the impure public good is behaviourally irrelevant. In a treatment where the impure public good provides only small contributions to the public good, we observe that on aggregate pro-social behaviour is lower in the presence of the impure public good. On the contrary, in the treatment where the impure public good is more generous towards the public good component at the expense of private earnings, individuals are unaffected in their behaviour. We observe that impure public goods, that are theoretically irrelevant and are mostly self-interested, may hinder pro-social behaviour and look for explanations in social psychology, such as the phenomenon of thoughtful anchoring, motivated reasoning and reluctant altruism. The results from this experiment question the role of green goods in enhancing environmentally friendly behaviours.
Q59|Ecological Risk Insurance in the System of Mechanisms for Environment Quality Management|The following article outlines the necessity for choosing the proper combination of mea­sures for environment quality management. The thesis is defended that ecological risk insurance is a primary and effective mechanism for com­pensating losses that result from environmental pollution. In this regard, ecological insurance stands out among other mechanisms for envi­ronmental protection. The role of technogenic risk insurance in the development of the coun­try’s wide-rage ecological policy is justified
Q59|Cultural dimensions and corporate social responsibility: A cross-country analysis|The diffusion of corporate social responsibility (CSR) has witnessed a surge in recent years but the rate of adoption among national business sectors diverges considerably. In this paper we attempt to frame the influence of national culture on CSR by assessing national CSR penetration under well-established cultural dimensions. We offer new evidence on the influence of cultural specificity - proxied by Hofstede’s model - on the adoption and endorsement of CSR among national business sectors. Findings suggest that three of the six cultural dimensions affect CSR penetration after controlling for aspects of socioeconomic development. Specifically, elements of long-term versus short-term orientation and indulgence versus restraint affect positively the composite CSR index while uncertainty avoidance has a negative effect. In contrast, the effect of, individualism, power distance and masculinity is found to be insignificant. These findings provide fertile ground to theorists and researchers for a deeper investigation of the impact of parameters that define the cultural specificity of CSR and act as moderators of organizational self-regulation.
Q59|Corporate responsibility and national institutions: A quantitative assessment|Corporate social responsibility (CSR) footprints in terms of relevant policies, plans and programs are evident at a global scale, but the level of national uptake and penetration differs, as countries differ considerably in terms of institutional efficiency. With this in mind, the purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between CSR penetration and institutional conditions that shape and define the macroeconomic environment and development dynamics of countries. Building on Campbell's (2007) seminal framework on institutional parameters that facilitate effective CSR management, we offer new findings on the national specificity of CSR and additional perspectives for future research on the political economy of responsible business conduct.
Q59|Bouncing back from extreme weather events: Some preliminary findings on resilience barriers facing small and medium-sized enterprises|Extreme Weather Events (EWEs) pose unprecedented threats to modern societies and represent a much-debated issue strongly interlinked with current development policies. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that constitute a driving force of economic growth, employment and total value-added remain highly vulnerable to and ill-prepared for such environmental perturbations. This study assesses barriers to SMEs’ resilience to EWEs in an attempt to shed light on enabling factors which can define effective SMEs responses to nonlinear environmental stimuli. Relying on an exploratory quantitative survey, the assessment offers essential research findings for practitioners on SME management and sets forth linkages with current mechanisms for policy interventions towards an appropriate resilience agenda for SMEs.
Q59|Questioning the Diffusion of Resilience Discourses in Pursuit of Transformational Change|Desirable responses to global environmental challenges are increasingly being characterized as requiring transformational social change. Keeping pace with this growing imperative, discourses of resilience are shifting away from an emphasis on durability toward more progressive themes. After briefly revisiting the interdisciplinary origin of social-ecological resilience, some lingering concerns about its theoretical underpinnings and practical implications are raised. With the theme of transformational change in mind, two sets of questions are posed—aiming to stimulate discussion of resilience as a boundary object, and resilience in practice. The first set of questions is intended to draw attention to differences between analysis and normativity in resilience discourses, as well as to how this plays out across different scales. The latter questions problematize the predominance of localism in resilience discourses and seek to advance the critique of its inherent neoliberalism.
Q59|Weather and Income: Lessons from the Main European Regions|Some recent papers by Dell et al. (2009) and Dell et al. (2012) (DJO) relating weather and economic outcomes, have delivered meaningful messages with clear implications to the effects of a changing climate. In a nutshell, the authors claim that a 1°C increase in global average temperatures would harm both the level and growth capacities of relatively poor countries, leaving rich countries basically unaffected. In this study, we make use of a detailed weather and economic dataset covering the main regions of the five largest economies in the Euro area in an attempt to refute the previous affirmation. In particular, we find in our sample that global warming affects, although in a modest manner, all regions within well-developed countries in the long-term (level effect). As in DJO, the level effect in poor regions is exacerbated. The latter regions also suffer from a slight negative short-term effect (growth effect). We claim also that the larger short-time response of these regions to a climate shock is partially adapted in the long-run.
Q59|Innováció a szakképzésben, hatása az agrárszakképzésre| Tanulmányunkban áttekintést adunk az agrárszakképzés alakulásáról. Az 1965. évtől kezdődően vált törvényileg szabályozottá a szakképzés, amely hatással volt az agrárszakképzésre is. A társadalmi, gazdasági változások függvényében a szakképzési szerkezetet folyamatos innováció, megújulás jellemezte. A szakképző intézmények rugalmasan alkalmazkodtak a változásokhoz, azokban a szituációkban is, amikor az egyes évfolyamokban párhuzamosan eltérő szabályozás alapján, különböző szakképzési dokumentumok alkalmazásával folyt a képzés. A jövőben is kiemelt jelentőségű lesz az agrárszakképzés a mezőgazdaság jövedelemtermelő képességének megőrzésében és megerősítésében. Ehhez fontos új képzési irány lesz a duális szakképzési rendszer, de oda kell figyelni az agrárszakképzések specialitásaira is. --------------------- Our study provides an overview of the evolution of agricultural training. Since 1965 there has been a law regulating training which has had an impact on agricultural vocational training. Vocational schools need the fl exibility to adapt to change, even in situations where each diploma is based on different rules applies different training documents. We will continue to regard the preservation and strengthening of the agri-earning capacity of vocational agriculture as a priority. For this important new direction there will be a dual vocational training system, but care must be taken in the agri-specialty training courses as well.
Q59|A reflektancia spektroszkópia alkalmazása talajok kémhatásának becslésében| Jelen kutatást a Gödöllői-dombság területén vett talajminták pH-értékeinek és reflektancia spektroszkópiai vizsgálatára alapoztuk.A terület 160 mintavételi pontjáról származó, 1 méter mélységig, 20 cm-ként vett összesen 800 db talajmintából 220 került be a vizsgálatba. A vizsgálat célja olyan módszer kidolgozása, mely reflektancia spektroszkópiai mérések és többváltozós matematikai-statisztikai (kemometriai) eljárások együttes alkalmazásán alapszik, és lehetővé teszi talajminták pH-jának meghatározását hagyományos laboratóriumi elemzések nélkül. A megfelelően előkészített talajminták pH értékeit a SZIE Talajtani és Agrokémiai Tanszék laboratóriumában elektrometriás módszerrel mértük meg, minden mintát két desztillált vizes és két KCl-os oldatban. Ezután ezeknek a mintáknak a spektrális reflektanciáját vizsgáltuk. A spektrális méréseket a VM Mezőgazdasági Gépesítési Intézetének Hiperspektrális Laboratóriumában az ott dolgozó munkatársak segítségével, Analytical Spectral Devices (ASD) FieldSpec 3 MAX hordozható spektroradiométerrel végeztük el. A spektrális adatokban rejlő változékonyság legnagyobb hányadáért (~86%) a talaj szerves anyagának mennyiségében (vagy akár minőségében) bekövetkezett változások felelnek. Az adatokban rejlő változékonyság 8%-át kifejező 2. komponens faktorsúly-diagramján a legpozitívabb csúcsok az 1900 és a 2200 nm-nél hosszabb hullámhosszakon mutatkoznak, és valószínűsíthetően az ebben a tartományban spektrális ujjlenyomattal rendelkező ásványok (agyagok, sók), vagy szerves összetevők befolyása jelentős. A variancia 4%-át kifejező 3. komponensen a vas különböző oxidjainak, hidroxidjainak jelentős befolyását valószínűsíthető. A talajminta analízis során a spektroszkópiai transzformációkon átesett spektrumok PLSR kemometriai elemzésével, a kalibrációs modell független validációs adathalmazzal történt tesztelése utána PLSR algoritmus alkalmazásával a desztillált vizes szuszpenzióban mért pH értékek becsülhetősége megbízhatóbbnak bizonyult, mint a KCl-os értékeké. Areflektancia spektroszkópiai mérésekkel és többváltozós matematikai-statisztikai módszerekkel talajok kémhatása nagyfokú megbízhatósággal becsülhető. Ez fontos eredménynek számít, figyelembe véve azt, hogy a talajok spektrális reflektanciáját vizsgáló kutatások elsősorban a spektrumokból az anyagi tulajdonságok (pl. szerves anyag, karbonátok mennyisége) kimutatására helyezik a hangsúlyt. A kutatás azonban bizonyította, hogy olyan, számos tényező által együttesen szabályozott kémiai paraméter, mint a pH is becsülhető megfelelő módszerek alkalmazásával. --------------------------------------------------------- The present research is based on the reflectance spectroscopy study of the pH of soil samples taken from the Gödöllő Hills. 220 of the 800 pieces of soil samples taken from 160 sampling points by 20 cm intervals to the depth of 1 meter were included in the study. The aim of the study was to develop a method which is based on the combined application of reflectance spectroscopy and multivariate mathematical-statistical (chemometric) procedures and allows the determination of the pH of soil samples without conventional laboratory analysis. The pH of the properly prepared soil samples was measured at the laboratory of the Department of Soil Science and Agrochemistry of Szent István University by electrometric method. Every sample was measured in two distilled water and in two KCl solutions. Then, these samples were examined by spectral reflectance. The spectral measurements were carried out at the Hyperspectral Laboratory of the Institute of Agricultural Engineering of the Ministry of Rural Development with the help of its employees using the Analytical Spectral Devices (ASD) FieldSpec 3 MAX portable spectro radiometer. The changes in the organic matter quantity (or even in the quality) of the soil account for the largest proportion (~ 86%) of the variability of the spectral data. The most positive peaks on the factor weight diagram of the second component, which accounts for 8% of the variability, are perceived at the wavelength of 1900 and 2200 nm. It is probable that the minerals (clays, salts) and organic compounds which have spectral fingerprints in this range are of high influence. The third component, which accounts for 4% of the variance presumes the significant influence of different iron oxides and hydroxides. During the analysis of the soil samples with the PLSR chemometric analysis of the spectra that have undergone spectroscopic transformations, after the calibration model was tested with an independent validation data set, the estimability of the pH values measured in the distilled water suspension by applying the PLSR algorithm proved to be more reliable than the KCl values. Soil pH can be estimated with high reliability using reflectance spectroscopy measures and multivariate mathematical-statistical methods. It is an important achievement, considering that researches into the spectral reflectance of the soil focus on the detection of material properties (e.g. organic material, the amount of carbonates) from the spectra. The research has proven that chemical parameters controlled by several factors collectively, like pH, can also be estimated by using appropriate methods.
Q59|Assessing The Option Value Of The Ogallala Aquifer In Texas High Plains: A Contingent Valuation Approach| Abstract The decline of the groundwater in the Ogallala Aquifer may create an uncertainty for water availability in the associated states in the future. Effective policy reforms are essential to determine efficient present and future use of water resources. Therefore, this study explores the option value for reducing current groundwater use to ensure the water availability in the Ogallala aquifer for future use. A double- bounded referendum format contingent valuation survey was carried out to investigate households’ preferences and the mean willingness to pay (WTP) of households for conserving the groundwater is empirically examined using a censored regression model. The estimated mean WTP to conserve one million acre feet of water for future use is $17.66 and the total willingness to pay is $28.96 million. The results indicate education and prior knowledge about the aquifer are significant determinants that are positively related to WTP whereas age is a significant factor that is negatively related to WTP in conserving the groundwater in the Ogallala Aquifer. This study provides policy makers with valuable information for building effective and sustainable policies, and the value estimates provided by this study will help future studies of groundwater use on the Texas High Plains.
Q59|Parochial Conservation Practices and the Decline of the Koala - A Draft| Considerable resources are invested in conserving species that may be locally, but not globally, threatened. There are a variety of motivations for such parochial conservation practices and policies, though often they are likely to be ineffective or inefficient in achieving meaningful conservation outcomes at either local or broad scales. We examine the koala in Australia as a case study of this problem as it is a species that is highly valued by the public, is only threatened over a portion of its range, and yet attracts considerable conservation effort in the portions of its range where it is in decline, especially in urban areas. We identify several approaches to koala conservation that have been favoured for many years despite the fact that they are likely to be ineffective at advancing koala conservation and suggest possible reasons for their continued use. We also identify opportunities for relatively cost-effective rural conservation that have not been adequately explored. Explicitly clarifying specific goals and objectives of conservation actions and evaluating of their efficacy would facilitate more effective prioritisation of investment of resources to improve conservation outcomes.
Q59|The social and economic nature of environmental risk insurance|The article points out the need and benefits from environmental protection when indemnifying damages, caused by the environmental risk upon its realization. The aims and goals of environmental insurance are presented. The role and function of the environmental insurance category are defined from the point of view of insurance theory. The correlation between the liability insurance against environmental protection and other insurance types is highlighted; analyzing the current condition and the opportunities for its development on the national insurance market; justifying the need of environmental pollution liability insurance for the economy of the country.
Q59|Do Environmental Regulations Increase Bilateral Trade Flows?|The argument that stringent environmental regulations are generally thought to harm export flows is crucial when determining policy recommendations related to environmental preservation and international competitiveness. By using bilateral trade data, we examine the relationships between trade flows and various environmental stringency indices. Previous studies have used energy intensity, abatement cost intensity, and survey indices for regulations as proxies for the strictness of environmental policy. However, they have overlooked the indirect effect of environmental regulations on trade flows. If the strong version of the Porter hypothesis is confirmed, we need to consider the effect of environmental regulation on gross domestic product (GDP), because GDP induced by environmental regulation affects trade flows. The present study clarifies the effects of regulation on trade flows by distinguishing between the indirect and direct effects. Our results indicate an observed non-negligible indirect effect of regulation, implying that the overall effect of appropriate regulation benefits trade flows.
Q59|Weather and Income: Lessons from the Main European Regions| Some recent papers by Dell et al. (2009) and Dell et al. (2012) (DJO) relating weather and economic outcomes, have delivered meaningful messages with clear implications to the effects of a changing climate. In a nutshell, the authors claim that a 1°C increase in global average temperatures would harm both the level and growth capacities of relatively poor countries, leaving rich countries basically unaffected. In this study, we make use of a detailed weather and economic dataset covering the main regions of the five largest economies in the Euro area in an attempt to refute the previous affirmation. In particular, we find in our sample that global warming affects, although in a modest manner, all regions within well-developed countries in the long-term (level effect). As in DJO, the level effect in poor regions is exacerbated. The latter regions also suffer from a slight negative short-term effect (growth effect). We claim also that the larger short-time response of these regions to a climate shock is partially adapted in the long-run.
Q59|Financialisation of the water sector in Poland|Over the last decade there has been dynamic development of technical infrastructure connected with the water economy in Poland. In the years 2000-2013, the water system network expended three times. Such development was possible thanks to the subsidies granted for the realisation of infrastructural investments under the European Union pre-accession (ISPA) as well as post-accession programmes (Structural Funds, Cohesion Funds) supported by state institutions responsible for environmental protection (the Ministry of Environment, the National Fund of Environmental Protection and Water Management). The financial means obtained from bank loans constituted an insignificant part of infrastructural investments. Responsibility for the water system, including the collective supply of water and collective discharge of sewage, is held by gminas1 and it is their own task under the municipal economy. Gminas, the number of which is 2479 in Poland, commission water and sewage service enterprises to perform these tasks. Such enterprises, characterised by a very fragmented structure, play a monopolistic role in a given gmina or a collection of gminas. That is why, the process of financialisation of this sector seems to be rather slow. Political conditions in local communities constitute additional limitations to abrupt ownership transformations in the water sector. Of key importance in water sector is the process of establishing tariffs for collective water supply and collective sewage discharge. The manner of validating the tariffs by gminas is, however, rather questionable. The total price of water supply in Poland varies to a large degree, compared to the prices of electricity or gas supply. It comes as a result of geographical and geological conditions in particular gminas as well as a large scale of proecological investments. Furthermore, the prices of water constitute a crucial political factor used in the fight for votes in the local government elections. The agreement from the gmina’s authorities to increase water prices may contribute to their political defeat and a loss of influence. The sector of water and sewage services is not supervised by a central regulatory authority. The functioning of water and sewage service enterprises is supervised by individual gminas. Thus, a conflict of interests occurs, i.e. gminas establish water and sewage service enterprises which they subsequently supervise. That is why, there has been a discussion in Poland over the creation of a central regulatory authority and the consolidation of the sector. These activities could lead to an intensive privatisation of this area of the economy and a significant growth in the level of financialisation of this sector.
Q59|A holistic vision of an ecolonomic society model|The latest inter and trans-disciplinary researches highlight the need to consider the exigencies of sustainable economic development. The current systemic crisis, affecting all sides of economical, social development, including the quality of life and global sustainability imperatives clearly indicates that current global model of economic development needs to be reconsidered. The evolutions in the opposite direction produced at worldwide level represent the result of a clash between increasingly profound scientific conquest and the morality of its enforcement in terms of â€œthe health of the entire life systemâ€ , natural environment and man-created environment. In our opinion the transition to the ecolonomic society is a complex process, consisting in the re-spiritualization of economics, education and social practices. We understand re-spiritualization of political democracy as transposing the model of ecolonomic society at the level of institutional behavior.
Q59|Back to 1820? Spatial distribution of GDP and CO2 Emissions|We construct the world's centers of gravity for human population, GDP and CO2 emissions by taking the best out of five recognized data sources covering the last two centuries. We also propose a more appropriate two-map representation of the location of the center of gravity, which abstracts from the usual distortions affecting the projection of a point within a three-dimensional sphere on a two-dimensional map. This allows for a more accurate interpretation of the underlying trends. We find a radical Western shift of GDP and CO2 emissions centers during the 19th century, in sharp contrast with the stability of the demographic center of gravity. Both GDP and emissions trends are reversed in the first half of the 20th century, after World War I for CO2 emissions, and after World War II for GDP. Since then, both centers are moving eastward at an accelerating speed. These patterns are consistent with the initial lead of Western countries starting the industrial revolution and the adoption of fossil fuels as its main energy source, the impact of world con flicts, the gradual replacement of coal by oil and gas, and the progressive catch up of Asian countries, leading to a convergence in terms of both GDP and CO2 emissions per capita in the recent past.
Q59|Transboundary Pollution Abatement: The Impact of Unilateral Commitment in Differential Games|The present study explores the strategic interactions of countries setting pollution abatement policies in a dynamic two-player game. To reach a common target of environmental quality, countries can choose to commit to a stream of pollution abate- ment right from the beginning of the game or decide upon abatement at each moment in time. Most of the literature studies homogenous strategies, where no country or all countries commit to a (same) predefined policy. The main novelty of this paper resides in the introduction of heterogeneous strategies, where only one country commits to a specific abatement policy and which is actually the kind of strategic behavior currently observed among large pollution nations. We find that the pollution level can be lower under heterogeneous than under homogenous strategies. A stringent environmental quality target will induce the committed player to produce an abatement effort that more than compensates the free-riding attitude of the non-committed player.
Q59|Hidden climate change related risks for the private sector|Climate change related risks impact and challenge the private sector in many different ways. This also applies to risk drivers like a companies’ reputation and a changing consumer behavior. Since significant risk drivers for companies differ just as much as companies themselves, a sector specific guideline to evaluate possible climate change related risk drivers is indispensable. Further, a sector specific analysis on these risk drivers can foster cross sectoral cooperation, innovation and learning processes with regard to climate change related risks.
Q59|The Underwriting Process in the Environmental Pollution Liability Insurance for Enterprises with Hazardous Waste Production|The article deals with some of the problems associated with underwriting process in the insurance companies, offering legal liability insurance to business companies of high environmental risk production. It is focused on some topical issues, highly significant, but not sufficiently treated by the insurance theory and practice in Bulgaria. The main goal of the article is briefly to shed a light on the underwriting concept in the insurance sector. Firstly, the specifics of the underwriting as a core business process that drives and interacts with other main and secondary processes in the insurance company are outlined. Thus it shapes almost the entire company’s profile, competences and business model as well. The article also outlines the decisive role of the underwriting and the need of its implementation in environmental pollution liability insurance for companies with hazardous waste production
Q59|Exploring corporate disclosure on climate change: Evidence from the Greek business sector|An increasing number of large corporations around the world engage in accounting for and reporting on their plans and measures towards climate change, as part of their environmental responsibility agenda. Using a disclosure index, this study investigates the status of the disclosure practices of the top 100 companies operating in Greece with respect to the pivotal issue of climate change. Determinants which drive Greek companies to publicly disclose such information are examined while overlapping perspectives for the Greek case are outlined. The analysis suggests that only a small group of leading Greek companies appears to endorse a climate change discourse as an instrument of empowering stakeholders’ decision-making. Most other corporations still tend to disregard disclosure practices of their actions towards this global issue.
Q59|Системите За Управление На Околната Среда И Еко-Иновациите – Опитът На Бизнеса В България<BR>[Environmental Management System and Eco-innovation – Bulgarian Business Case Study]|The economic activities and the ever-increasing needs for resources put the world in a position to discover urgently a path towards sustainable development. To achieve this aim the environmental policies and innovative approaches are crucial. Eco-innovations are key element in EU sustainable growth strategy. Based on that, the report reviews and evaluates the activities of the Bulgarian SMEs in the development and implementation of new innovative technologies in the last 3 years based on the results of a survey among 135 companies with working environment management system under ISO 14001 or EMAS.
Q59|Ползите За Бизнеса От Внедряването На Системите За Управление На Околната Среда<BR>[Implementation of the Environment System Management - the benefits for business]|The technological and economic progress in the last couple of decades has posed significant pressure over the planet. Fact that calls for urgent imposing of significant measures for sustainable development – measures that are the baseline for the current ecological policies. One of the most widely distributed and recognizable tools in this area is the Environment System Management (EMS) according to ISO 14001 and EMAS. Worldwide researches on the benefits of their implementations clearly reveal that EMS adds actual value to companies regardless of their size. The main identified advantages include internal processes optimization; innovations encouragement and proportional increase of business; development and introduction of new products and services; penetration and even creation of new markets. On that grounds, the current article provides a review and evaluation of the benefits the Bulgarian companies find after the EMS implementation in the last three years. The described data is based on the results of a survey among 135 Bulgarian companies with working EMS according to ISO 14000 or EMS.
Q59|Strategic Environmental Assessment: necessity, principles and specificities|With the development of market economy, the upgrading of manufacturing activities and the globalization of all spheres of public life, it now becomes clear that the pace of economic growth may decrease and even to acquire a negative entry, under the influence of environmental pollution. This requires an assessment of environmental risks, their management, reduction and/or prevention. SEA is an essential tool for integrating environmental considerations into the preparation and adoption of plans and programs which are likely to have significant effects on the environment. The purpose of SEA is to detect the environmental issues at an early stage of development the strategic decision-making and to assess the possible effects of their implementation. The basic principles to be observed in SEA are integration, dialogue, responsibility, willingness to defend the decisions taken in the process, awareness (information), flexibility and democracy. SEA procedure is characterized by the following features: 1.Public participation should be an inseparable part of the process; 2.Integrating of the planning process and the process of environmental assessment and continuous contact between the two teams; 3.Successful consultations amongst with the stakeholders. The relations between man and the environment are a prerequisite for the occurrence of a number of changes in it, that can significantly deteriorate the environmental conditions. This threatens ecosystems, social stability, health and economic development and requires strict measures towards nature conservation and preventing (or limiting) the adverse impacts.
Q59|A National Survey On Socio-Economic Factors Contributing To Increased Municipal Solid Waste In Kuwait|The objective of this study is to investigate socioeconomic factors that contribute to increased waste generation in Kuwait. We surveyed over 800 homeowners on their waste quantities, practices, awareness and initiatives towards waste reduction and better management. The survey collected demographic information of participants including nationality, income, property type, individuals per household, individuals employed, educational levels, etc. The study also explored public opinion and awareness towards household waste recycling and amount of tariff accepted by the public to have residential solid removed and disposed more efficiently. Statistical correlation using the Spearman Rho correlation tests identified variables that are good predictors for the solid waste generated per household. All analyses maintained a 95% confidence level.
Q59|Eco - friendly practices in the lodging industry:the case of Ayvalik Cunda Ortunc Hotel, Turkey|The changing profoundly affect the tourism sector as in all areas. In this context, the new trends in tourism sector have been observed on the eve of 21st century. The depletion of natural resources of tourism, increase of population and the environmental problems bring about a number of changes in tourist profile and their request. So, one of the new changes in world tourism is the increase in demand for environmentally sensitive tourism. In the face of the current environmental problems, tourism sector has encountered the new trends. One of these new trends in tourism is eco hotels. It can be said that eco hotels are of the two main contributions. The first one is to meet the expectations of a conscious group of tourists who are sensitive to the environment. The second one is to serve to the sustainable tourism by using the natural resources more efficiently. Thus, eco hotels become increasingly an important force in allowing the countries in which they do business to be come more competitive in the long term. In this study, the importance of eco-hotels are discussed. And as a sample, Ortunç Hotel which is established and run in Cunda Island of Ayvalik/Balikesir was selected. In Ortunç Hotel - an eco-hotel -, the current practises were deeply reviewed.
Q59|Marketing strategies adopted by the tourism entrepreneurs of Navodari|For the last years the tourism circulation manifested in Navodari has intensified, this area registering a significant increase in the number of structures of tourists reception with functions of accommodation. The area has become an interesting tourist destination both for young tourists who access tourist services specific to night entertainment, here being the most famous clubs of the seaside, and for families with children who choose this area due to the beach which is large and not very crowded during high season. In the last years, the tourism entrepreneurs of this area have adopted strategies to diversify tourist products and services in order to meet the needs and requirements expressed among tourists, diversifying strategies by commercialization of tourism products for various tourist segments and using flexibility strategies which target the adjustment of the offer to the changes which appear on the tourism market.
Q59|Climate Change and Natural Disasters: Responding to the Philippines’ Haiyan tragedy|The powerful typhoon Haiyan that swept across the Philippines is one of the strongest storms ever to make landfall, cut a path of destruction through several central islands, causing scores of people dead. The disaster's full impact is still revealing as the entire country has been caught in a state of shock and desperation. The devastation is really horrific with human tragedy. Responding to the disaster of such magnitude calls for both national and international hands to come forward for the affected people.
Q59|Innovation logics and energy consumption in the service sector: a characteristics-based approach and its application to food retail services|The contribution of services to wealth and job creation in contemporary economies continues to increase, as does their demand for energy. However, the energy issue as it relates to services has been little explored in the literature, with the exception of ICT and transport. The still dominant hypothesis is that of a sector whose output is intangible and whose energy consumption is therefore low. Similarly, while the literature on innovation in services has undeniably grown over the past two decades, the question of the relationship between innovation in services and the evolution of the demand for energy has been neglected. This article is devoted to an analysis of this relationship. The aim is to develop an analytical framework capable of identifying the consequences in terms of energy of different innovation logics in services. The framework is then applied to the case of food retailing.
Q59|Focusing Climate Change Policy on Health in Cities|Can using the social determinants of health to develop climate change policy ‘build’ resilient cities? Current climate change policy focused on resilience, while effective, can acquire more depth with a health focus. How though, is the question? The social determinants of health can act as a guide for resilience-focused policy. The SDH with their focus on the causes of the causes may assist with the strengthening of policy aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change. The paper emerges from the findings of a content analysis and a survey of 51 cities to identify policy areas with potential for growth based on a policy matrix developed using the social determinants of health.
Q59|Forecasting Generalized Quantiles of Electricity Demand: A Functional Data Approach| Electricity load forecasts are an integral part of many decision-making processes in the electricity market. However, most literature on electricity load forecasting concentrates on deterministic forecasts, neglecting possibly important information about uncertainty. A more complete picture of future demand can be obtained by using distributional forecasts, allowing for more efficient decision-making. A predictive density can be fully characterized by tail measures such as quantiles and expectiles. Furthermore, interest often lies in the accurate estimation of tail events rather than in the mean or median. We propose a new methodology to obtain probabilistic forecasts of electricity load that is based on functional data analysis of generalized quantile curves. The core of the methodology is dimension reduction based on functional principal components of tail curves with dependence structure. The approach has several advantages, such as flexible inclusion of explanatory variables like meteorological forecasts and no distributional assumptions. The methodology is applied to load data from a transmission system operator (TSO) and a balancing unit in Germany. Our forecast method is evaluated against other models including the TSO forecast model. It outperforms them in terms of mean absolute percentage error and mean squared error. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
Q59|Volatility Modelling of CO2 Emission Allowance Spot Prices with Regime-Switching GARCH Models|I compare the performance of solution methods in solving a standard real business cycle model with labor market search frictions. Under the conventional calibration, the model is solved by the projection method using the Chebyshev polynomials as its basis, and the perturbation methods up to third order in both levels and logs. Evaluated by two accuracy tests, the projection approximation achieves the highest degree of accuracy, closely followed by the third order perturbation in levels. Although different in accuracy, all the approximated solutions produce simulated moments similar in value.
Q59|Air Pollution and the Willingness to Pay of Exposed Individuals in Downtown Medellín, Colombia|Within Colombia, Medellín holds the title of the city with the second worst air quality, and within the city, Downtown Medellín is one of the areas most affected by mobile gas emissions. Individuals that work downtown were surveyed in order to measure their willingness to pay (WTP) to reduce air pollution. Four groups are characterized according to the respondents' answers: Stated Preference (SP), Averted Costs (AV), both (SP and AV), and No WTP. Results show that age, income level, having a symptom/illness, and exposure to pollution (at different levels) are important for characterizing the respondents into these groups and have a direct effect on the probability of them stating a positive WTP.
Q59|Integrated Assessment of Climate Change Impacts: Conceptual Frameworks, Modelling Approaches and Research Needs|This paper presents a framework to include feedbacks from climate impacts on the economy in integrated assessment models. The proposed framework uses a production function approach, which links climate impacts to key variables and parameters used in the specification of economic activity. The key endpoints within climate impact categories are linked to the relevant connections for a range of sectors in the economy. The paper pays particular attention to the challenges of distinguishing between damages and the costs of adapting to climate change. The paper also reviews existing studies and available data that can be used to establish linkages between climate impacts and key variables within economic models. There is considerable heterogeneity across the timing and geographic distribution of changes in climatic variables, the consequent changes in key physical and biogeochemical “endpoints” that might occur over time and space, and the magnitude of the resulting damages that these effects are likely to impose on the range of sectors in the economy. The review underlines the uncertainty involved in each of these dimensions and the research needs for the future. Le présent document expose une méthodologie visant à inclure, de façon systématique, les effets économiques consécutifs aux impacts du changement climatique dans les modèles d'évaluation intégrée. La méthode proposée se fonde sur le concept de la fonction de production, en reliant les différents impacts environnementaux associé au changement climatiques à leurs effets sur les variables et les paramètres clés des modèles utilisées pour décrire les mécanismes et interactions économiques. Il s’agit d’associer les principaux impacts environnementaux aux différentes activités économiques qu’ils sont appelés à impacter. Le document accorde une attention particulière à la difficulté de distinguer les coûts de l'adaptation au changement climatique des dégâts dus à ce changement. Le document passe également en revue les études existantes ainsi que les données disponibles qui peuvent être utilisées pour établir des liens entre les impacts climatiques et les variables clés dans les modèles économiques. Cette revue de littérature souligne les très fortes disparités spatiales et chronologiques des modifications environnementales dues au changement climatique, et par conséquent une forte hétérogénéité que ces impacts physiques et biogéochimiques sont susceptibles de poser à l'ensemble des secteurs de l'économie, tant dans leur amplitude que sur le plan géographique ou temporel. L’analyse souligne l'incertitude liée à chacune de ces dimensions et les besoins de la recherche pour l'avenir.
Q59|Aspects Of Ecofeminism In Romania|"Ecofeminism can be understood as the relationship between the manner in which women are treated in society and on how the environment is treated and protected. Ecofeminism starts from the idea according to which ""nature is a feminist issue"". The explanation for this is based on the feminist philosophy according to which the connection between woman and nature is a strong one, due to the fact that she is the one who gives birth, thus helping nature to regenerate itself. Without women, female plants and animals, the planet could not develop, perpetuate and the end would be death. Furthermore, another explanation related to the first is that animals and people in their capacity as mothers are able to provide a greater amount of love, care, protection, both to their offspring and to nature. This paper aims to analyze the manner in which women are harmed by the environmental degradation in Romania and also the principles that have governed and still govern the current economy. Nowadays society is lead largely by male gender persons. The main accusations against current policies is that they seek concrete and immediate results, such as those related to economic growth, inflation rate etc. in terms of strictly economic indicators such as: gross domestic product, net national product, gross national product etc.. On the contrary, ecofeminist policies suggest that the emphasis should be placed on quality of life issues, which within itself analyzes both economic and also social and environmental aspects. Is not this the reproach for decades now that is brought to current economic policies? The fact that they do not take into account issues related to environmental degradation, in time led to negative consequences in the world whose costs are unimaginable."
Q59|Analysis economic indicators main crops in the South-West Oltenia|The agriculture is an important resource for South West Oltenia, with over 1 million hectares used for the cultivation of cereals (mainly maize and wheat), oil plants (especially sunflower), vegetables (tomatoes, cabbage, onions) and fruits (apples, watermelons, melons, grapes), potatoes, sugar beet, good quality wine production. In this study are analyzed indicators on the evolution of cultivated surfaces, yields and prices for main crops: the average annual rate of growth, deviations in absolute size. The research method used is quantitative analysis of statistical data series in 2007-2013. Using regression function we obtained trends of the indicators used.
Q59|Ecosystems -- burden or bounty ?|This paper presents a somewhat novel approach to explore the economic contribution of ecosystems. It develops linked models to capture connections between resource stocks and flows and the resulting microeconomic and macroeconomic impacts. A bioeconomic model is developed that is imbedded into a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. Incorporating imperfect regulation, the bioeconomic model characterizes optimal policies, while the CGE model explores the economy-wide consequences of possible changes to the ecosystem. The model is parameterized and calibrated to the case of the Serengeti ecosystem which is perhaps the most intensively researched biome with a relative abundance of data. This ecosystem is also undergoing rapid change from a host of factors related to developments within and around the protected area system. The analysis identifies the contribution of the ecosystem to the economy and finds that changes in tourism and bushmeat hunting have surprisingly diffuse economy-wide impacts, that are especially large in the rural sector. To guard against overstatement, ecosystem impacts are under-stated relative to other effects. The results suggest that linkages to the natural resource sector (backward and forward multipliers) are important and neglecting these may lead to biased estimates.
Q59|Economic Liberalization and Environmental Degradation in India: A Causal Analysis of Interventions|Considering the context of India, economic liberalization plays a major role in industrialization and environmental degradation, at the same time. India?s fossil fuel based energy-led economic growth and consequential carbon emissions are largely influenced by economic liberalization. In this paper, we have considered the twenty years per and post liberalization (1971-2010) and by formulation of an error correction model, we have demonstrated by the established causal associations among economic growth, drivers of growth, and negative consequences of growth undergo changes. This demonstration is based on three constructs associated with economic liberalization, namely industrialization, energy efficiency, and rural-urban migration. Analysis of missing feedback link in Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis using contextual interventions is the primary contribution of this paper in ecological economics literature.
Q59|Adaptation to Climate Change and International Mitigation Agreements with Heterogeneous Countries|This paper investigates the impact of adaptation on a country's incentive to participate in emission-reducing International Environmental Agreements (IEAs) on climate change. We develop a framework where heterogeneity across countries is introduced with respect to the benefits and costs of both mitigation of emissions and adaptation to reduce the impact of climate change. The paper uses two coalition stability concepts and numerical simulations to look at stable coalitions. We also study the effect of an within-coalition increase in the efficiency of adaptation on emissions and on countries' incentives to cooperate. Our main findings are: first, investment in adaptation technology has a public good feature inside the coalition, compared to being strictly a private good in the non-cooperation case. Second, a large coalition cannot be achieved if countries differ much in terms of vulnerability. Third, cooperation incentives can be enhanced by a coalition which diffuses technological progress on climate change adaptation among its members.
Q59|Ecosystems - Burden or Bounty?|This paper presents a somewhat novel approach to explore the economic contribution of ecosystems. It develops linked models to capture connections between resource stocks and flows and the resulting micro and macroeconomic impacts. A bioeconomic model is developed that is imbedded into a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. Incorporating imperfect regulation, the bioeconomic model characterizes optimal policies, while the CGE model explores the economy-wide consequences of possible changes to the ecosystem. The model is parameterized and calibrated to the case of the Serengeti ecosystem which is perhaps the most intensively researched biome with a relative abundance of data. This ecosystem is also undergoing rapid change from a host of factors related to developments within and around the protected area system. The analysis identifies the contribution of the ecosystem to the economy and finds that changes in tourism and bushmeat hunting have surprisingly diffuse economy-wide impacts, that are especially large in the rural sector. To guard against overstatement, ecosystem impacts are under-stated relative to other effects. The results suggest that linkages to the natural resource sector (backward and forward multipliers) are important and neglecting these may lead to biased estimates.
Q59|Linking city development and adaptation to climate change|"Climate change is happening, projected to continue and poses serious challenges also for cities' development. Extreme weather events resulting in hazards such as heat waves, floods and droughts are expected to happen more frequently in many parts of Europe. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predicts global temperatures to rise an additional 2-4˚C by the end of this century and graduation of weather extremes. While urban areas will generally experience the same exposures to climate change as surrounding regions, the urban setting can alter these local impacts. The replacement of natural vegetation with artificial surfaces and buildings creates unique microclimates altering temperature, moisture, wind direction and rainfall patterns. Moreover cities forms difficult dynamic systems with high density of people, hub of services and infrastructure so the climate change impacts have and will have potentially serious consequences for human health, livelihoods, and assets and ultimately influence the development of the entire city and its surroundings. However, many city managements are still inactive in this field. It is caused mainly by lack of information, low awareness and knowledge and absence of positive good examples. On the other hand an increasing number of cities around the world have begun to plan for climate change by developing stand-alone climate plans or incorporating climate considerations into existing plans, policies, and projects to become more resilient towards existing and future climate impacts, thereby limiting their magnitude and severity. City of Kosice, Slovakia namely, its largest city district West in cooperation with the research institution Carpathian Development Institute had implemented (as one of the first in Slovakia) the process of climate change adaptation in order to be better prepared and adjust proactively for the heat waves as the critical climate change impact on the city borough residents. The adaptation strategy is built on the principle ""low cost quick win"" based on assumption that increasing resilience requires not only robust decision making and big investments, but also a strong web of institutional and social relationships that can provide a safety net for vulnerable populations. Through both formal planning activities and concrete measures preparations, city is building their capacity to adapt effectively to existing and future climate impacts, while also experimenting and innovating in policy making and planning. The paper highlights key lessons learned from planning and implementing climate adaptation process as a part of innovative and integrated city development policy."
Q59|Capability and Well-Being in the Forest Villages and Tea Gardens in Dooars Region of North Bengal|This e-book is based on a Minor Research Project sponsored by the University Grants Commission (UGC), India. It investigates quality of life related issues especially about how the forest villagers and tea-plantation workers of Dooars region in North Bengal (West Bengal, India) are provided with the basic capabilities to participate in and to contribute to society. Empirically, it studies, first, living conditions of the inhabitants; second, the burden of disease, disability and injuries in the region; and third, health seeking behaviour according to type of care and system of medicine. It uses primary data mainly collected through interviews and visits during 2012-2013 covering 400 households in the region. It applies simple algebraic and statistical tools including those in public health, and multivariate logistic regression analyses.
Q59|Comparing models of unobserved heterogeneity in environmental choice experiments| Choice experiments have become a widespread approach to non-market environmental valuation. Given the vast range of public opinions towards environmental management changes, it is desirable that analysis of discrete choice data accounts for the possibility of unobserved heterogeneity amongst the population. There is, however, no consensus about the best way to model individual heterogeneity. This paper presents four approaches to modelling heterogeneity that are increasingly used in the literature. Latent class, mixed logit, scaled multinomial logit and generalised mixed logit (GMXL) models are estimated using case study data for catchment environmental management in Australia. A GMXL model that accounts for preference and scale heterogeneity performs best. I evaluate the impacts of models on welfare estimates and discuss the merits of each modelling approach.
Q59|Comparing models of unobserved heterogeneity in environmental choice experiments| Choice experiments have become a widespread approach to non-market environmental valuation. Given the vast range of public opinions towards environmental management changes, it is desirable that analysis of discrete choice data accounts for the possibility of unobserved heterogeneity amongst the population. There is, however, no consensus about the best way to model individual heterogeneity. This paper presents four approaches to modelling heterogeneity that are increasingly used in the literature. Latent class, mixed logit, scaled multinational logit and generalised mixed logit (GMXL) models are estimated using case study data for catchment environmental management in Australia. A GMXL model that accounts for preference and scale heterogeneity performs best. I evaluate the impacts of models on welfare estimates and discuss the merits of each modelling approach.
Q59|An environmentally - sensitive approach in the hotel industry: ecolodges|Today tourism is one of the largest and fastest growing sectors in the world. Statistics revealed that in spite of occasional shocks, international tourist arrivals have shown virtually uninterrupted growth: from 25 million in 1950, to 277 million in 1980; to 435 million in 1990, to 675 million in 2000. Worldwide, international tourist arrivals reached 940 million in 2010, up 6.6% over the previous year. It can be said that the growth in demand for nature tourism within this international tourist demand has been significant in recent years. Moreover, it is expected to grow steadily by taking into consideration of tourists ‘changing needs and expectations. It is due to the increase in environmental awareness and environmental – sensitive choices of tourists. Today tourists are becoming more aware of the importance of environment and, this forces the hotel industry to pay more attention on environmentally – sensitive approach. As a consequence of these changes and progresses, an accommodation concept called as “eco-hotels” or “ecolodge” or “green hotel” has been occurred. Today, ecolodges are one of the first choices for hotel investments in many destinations. In the study, the samples presented are quite interesting and it is anticipated that with its such aspect, it will be quite beneficial to hotel investors and hotel managers.
Q59|Roi - Kaen - San - Sin destination branding. The challenge of responsible tourism in Thailand for AEC|Roi-Kaen-San-Sin is a pseudonym of the cultural prosperity destination areas of Roi-et, Khon Kaen, Mahasarakam, and Kalasin Provinces in Thailand. This cluster is situated on Mittraparp Road, the highway and gateway to Route No.9, which links to Laos and Vietnam. Destination Branding is one of the things the Tourism Authority of Thailand would like to upgrade in each of the provinces. The author selected Sinsai, oral traditions, unique forms of architecture, literature, and various performances for use in branding in order to accentuate and brand these tourism destinations in Laos-Thailand as valuable heritages, both tangibly and intangibly. The challenge was in how to show the cultural diversity of the former Lan Xang Kingdom by means of responsible tourism in line with the objectives of the ASEAN Economic Community. What is the best way to systemize and integrate the cultural and intangible splendor of these locations? This paper will develop the initiative case study concept of responsible cultural heritage destination branding.
Q59|Is romanian infrastructure development ready to face transport needs for a tourist?|The recent years recorded changes in the Romanian economic sectors. Tourism and transports are very much related. Following a research on each mode of transport development for the last two decades and more, with progress and shortcomings, one discover why and if was possible to support a modern and comfortable background for tourists traveling in our country. Interconnections between communities and regional development with transport infrastructure offer elements for a better understanding of the present conditions to benefit of a responsible tourism in close connection with transport levers. The development of different transport modes was made unequal in recent decades, influencing the opportunities both for foreigners to fully enjoy a trip or a longer stay in Romania and for local inhabitants when visiting as tourists different areas of their country. Results of the analysis help us point where to start for future policies in the connected fields.
Q59|Growth, development and sustainability|Describing the relationship of interdependence through the materials balance, will be argued how the economy is a subset of the environment and the environment the natural limit to any economic initiative, or the limits imposed by the laws of thermodynamics. The theoretical debate moves, then, from the concept of growth to that of development, understood this in its three dimensions: economic, social, environmental. Bring the different environmental positions in four versions of sustainability, with the gained awareness that it’s “a spectrum of overlapping sustainability positions from very weak to very strong”.
Q59|Harnessing the tourism potential of Uricani, Campul lui Neag, Valea cu Brazi area through the development of the health tourism|Uricani town is the main entry gate to Retezat Nature Preserve. After having lost their calling of mining region, a tourism identity thereof has been sought to be created for Uricani and its component villages, Câmpul lui Neag and Valea cu Brazi. Thus, multifarious projects have been achieved having as main purpose the development and promotion of tourism in Uricani. Câmpul lui Neag and Valea cu Brazi localities offer a highly picturesque natural landscape, an unpolluted climate beneficial for people seeking relaxation and recharging of their physical and mental potential. At present these localities have an accommodation infrastructure that offers services to the tourists seeking mountaineering opportunities in the mountain massifs. Recharging programs can be achieved in this area for the benefit of people affected by stress, based on alternative techniques: Qigong, yoga, color therapy, melotherapy, in association with body care components. Classification-JEL: M13, Q59
Q59|Accesible tourism and disability service information provided on leading airline websites: A content analysis|The global population is aging, and older adults have more chronic conditions and disabilities relative to their younger counterparts. Aging and disabled populations have limitations associated with physical functioning, cognitive impairment, and loss of sense functioning. This group of people travelers represents an interesting segment in the tourism industry; however, the current market offers inadequate products and services to meet their needs and demands. The inability and unpreparedness of the touristic infrastructure to offer these necessary services compromises the quality of the tourism experience. The primary purpose of this study was to assess the content provided on official websites of major airline carriers as related to information, services, and resources to accommodate aging and disabled travelers. Airlines were selected for meeting one of the following criteria, ranked as: (1) one of the 10 best airlines; (2) one of the leading 10 airlines in terms of safety ratings; and (3) one of the leading 10 airlines in terms of lowest cost. The results show that many airlines did not provide adequate information. It is also important to notice that the safest/securest airlines were frequently those who reported most disability-related content on their websites
Q59|Tourists’ Intentions To Support Environmental Initiatives In Mountain Destinations: The Case Of Poiana Brasov, Romania| Considering the fact that international consumers are being increasingly ecologically conscious, the present study aims to capture tourists’ intentions to support environmental initiatives in a Romanian mountain destination, namely Poiana Brasov. Using a quantitative research method, a total of 331 tourists have been interviewed in their accommodation location. The main variables of the research refer to the following issues: tourists’ interest in supporting environmental initiatives in the visited destination, the type of environmental initiatives they would participate in, the profile of the environmentally friendly tourists in Poiana Brasov and tourists’ interest in donating funds for conservation projects. The results of this study outline the necessity for a responsible management of both the destination and tourism services providers in Poiana Brasov, in order to meet tourists’ interest to participate in environmental initiatives.
Q59|Air pollution and the willingness to pay of exposed individuals in downtown Medellín, Colombia|Abstract: Air Pollution and the Willingness to Pay of Exposed Individuals in Downtown Medellín, Colombia Abstract: Within Colombia, Medellín holds the title of the city with the second worst air quality, and within the city, Downtown Medellín is one of the areas most affected by mobile gas emissions. Individuals that work downtown were surveyed in order to measure their willingness to pay (WTP) to reduce air pollution. Four groups are characterized according to the respondents' answers: Stated Preference (SP), Averted Costs (AV), both (SP and AV), and No WTP. Results show that age, income level, having a symptom/illness, and exposure to pollution(at different levels) are important for characterizing the respondents into these groups and have a direct effect on the probability of them stating a positive WTP. Resumen: En Colombia, Medellín ostenta el título de ser la segunda ciudad con la peor calidad de aire, y dentro de la ciudad el centro es considerado una de las zonas con mayor emisión de contaminación por fuentes móviles. Teniendo en cuenta este hecho, se entrevistaron a las personas que trabajan en esta zona con el fin de caracterizar su disposición a pagar por reducir la contaminación del aire. Se identificaron cuatro grupos de individuos a partir de las respuestas obtenidas: individuos con preferencias establecidas (SP), con costos evitados (AV), con ambos (SP y AV) e individuos sin disposición a pagar (No WTP). Los resultados muestran que la edad, el nivel de ingresos, presentar un síntoma o enfermedad y la exposición a la contaminación (en diferentes niveles) son características importantes para determinar a cuál de los grupos pueden pertenecer los individuos y, a su vez, afecta la probabilidad de responder una disposición a pagar positiva.
Q59|On the economics of ramping rate restrictions at hydro power plants: Balancing profitability and environmental costs|This paper examines the impact of ramping rate restrictions imposed on hydro operations to protect aquatic ecosystems. A dynamic optimization model of the profit maximizing decisions of a hydro operator is solved for various restrictions on water flow, using data for a representative hydro operation in Ontario. Profits are negatively affected, but for a range of restrictions the impact is not large. Ramping restrictions cause a redistribution of hydro production over a given day, which can result in an increase in total hydro power produced. This affects the need for power from other sources with consequent environmental impacts.
Q59|Pricing rainfall futures at the CME|Many business people such as farmers and financial investors are affected by indirect losses caused by scarce or abundant rainfall. Because of the high potential of insuring rainfall risk, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) began trading rainfall derivatives in 2011. Compared to temperature derivatives, however, pricing rainfall derivatives is more difficult. In this article, we propose to model rainfall indices via a flexible type of distribution, namely the normal-inverse Gaussian distribution, which captures asymmetries and heavy-tail behaviour. The prices of rainfall futures are computed by employing the Esscher transform, a well-known tool in actuarial science. This approach is flexible enough to price any rainfall contract and to adjust theoretical prices to market prices by using the calibrated market price of risk. The empirical analysis is conducted with US precipitation data and CME futures data providing first results on the market price of risk for rainfall derivatives.
Q59|Bounded awareness, heuristics and the Precautionary Principle|The Precautionary Principle has been proposed as a basis for making decisions about environmental issues but remains controversial. Using a model of inductively justified propositions about awareness, this paper shows how the Precautionary Principle may be interpreted as a heuristic guide for boundedly rational decision-makers faced with the possibility of unfavorable surprises.
Q59|Ecological Agriculture – Engine Of Sustainable Development In Romania|The development of ecological agriculture it is seen as an alternative for the third millennium, since agriculture is a determining economic activity in the national economy and its evolution have effects upon the economic development. The goal of ecological agriculture is to ensure sustainable development as this sector of the economy is based on long-term use of locally available resources. Ecological agriculture minimizes global environmental problems such as acid rain, global warming, reduction of biodiversity and desertification. Organic farming has a great contribution to a lasting economic development and plays an important role in the improvement of the environment, preservation of soil, improvement of water quality, biodiversity and protection of nature and may contribute to the expanding of economic activities with high added value and to generating new jobs in rural areas. This paper aims to present the actual situation of the ecological agriculture in Romania taking into consideration its ascendant evolution in the l.ast years, both in the plant and animal production sector.
Q59|What a Political Philosopher Has to Say About Climate Change|The abundant philosophical literature on climate change mainly explains how (according to an ethic of justice) we can redress climate injustice between generations, between rich and poor, etc.; but says little on why we should do so, or what motivations we may have for worrying about climate change. Understanding the motivations, however, is crucial to the political endeavour to design strategies and identify actors that can bring about a higher level of global governance to face this challenge.
Q59|Towards a Sustainable University – The Ca’ Foscari Experience|"Education of present and future generations is the mission of Universities: and sustainability is a core issue to be tackled in this perspective. This is the key message of the book ""Towards a Sustainable University"" , which aims at analysing the role of universities in the creation and spread of knowledge, and the educational and behavioral models of all the stakeholders, supporting the pursuit of this new paradigm. The path towards sustainability needs first of all a deep cultural change, starting with the education of responsible citizens: this is an essential step, without which it would not be possible to overcome the weaknesses of the present development model."
Q59|Spatial analysis of dumpsites volumes from rural territory Case study: Neamt County, Romania|Open dumps was the main option of the local communities in household waste management, this practice being banned after July 16, 2009.The paper examines the correlation between dumpsites volumes, population density and local geographical conditions in the context that in most rural administrative-territorial units of the county there were no facilities for waste collection. The geographical distribution of dumpsites volumes reflects the disparities between different areas of the county and on the other hand, it highlights the spaces exposed to pollution. Also, the comparative analysis between 2004 (pre-accession) and 2009 (post-accession) reflects a rudimentary waste management system in this period which favored the waste dumping. This paper analyses the issues of rural waste management and its environmental implications at local scale. Such approaches are necessary for a proper analysis of EU environmental policies implementation at regional and local level
Q59|Pricing Rainfall Derivatives at the CME|Many business people such as farmers and financial investors are affected by indirect losses caused by scarce or abundant rainfall. Because of the high potential of insuring rainfall risk, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) began trading rainfall derivatives in 2011. Compared to temperature derivatives, however, pricing rainfall derivatives is more difficult. In this article, we propose to model rainfall indices via a flexible type of distribution, namely the normal-inverse Gaussian distribution, which captures asymmetries and heavy-tail behaviour. The prices of rainfall futures are computed by employing the Esscher transform, a wellknown tool in actuarial science. This approach is flexible enough to price any rainfall contract and to adjust theoretical prices to market prices by using the calibrated market price of risk. This empirical analysis is conducted with U.S. precipitation data and CME futures data providing first results on the market price of risk for rainfall derivatives.
Q59|Volatility linkages between energy and agricultural commodity prices|We investigate price and volatility risk originating in linkages between energy and agricultural commodity prices in Germany and study their dynamics over time. We propose an econometric approach to quantify the volatility and correlation risk structure, which has a large impact for investment and hedging strategies of market participants as well as for policy makers. Volatilities and their short and long run linkages are analyzed using an asymmetric dynamic conditional correlation GARCH model as well as a multivariate multiplicative volatility model. Our approach provides a flexible and accurate fitting procedure for volatility and correlation risk. We find that in the long run prices move together and preserve an equilibrium, while correlations are mostly positive with persistent market shocks. Our results reveal that concerns about biodiesel being the cause of high and volatile agricultural commodity prices are rather unjustified.
Q59|Estimating The Necessary Costs For Natura 2000 Network Management In Romania|Estimating the necessary costs for the operation of Natura 2000 Network represented a constant concern at the European Union level throughout the years. For Romania, this approach is in an early stage. In this context, the main objective of the present paper targets the estimation of the necessary finance for the management of Natura 2000 Network that has been established in Romania. The research methodology presupposed the design of a questionnaire that was submitted for filling in by all the component sites of the network. The obtained data made it possible to calculate the unit cost, which was extrapolated to the entire Network. The results reveal that Romania is in the category of EU New Member States where the average costs per hectare are generally lower than those from the EU Old Member States.
Q59|Somewhere over the Rainbow: How to Make Effective Use of Colors in Meteorological Visualizations|"Results of many atmospheric science applications are processed graphically using colors to encode certain parts of the information. Colors should (1) allow humans to process more information, (2) guide the viewer to the most important information, (3) represent the data appropriately without misleading distortion, and (4) be appealing. The second requirement necessitates tailoring the visualization and the use of color to the viewer for whom the graphics is intended. A standard way of deriving color palettes is via transitions trough a certain color space. Most of the common software packages still provide palettes derived in the RGB color model or ""simple"" transformations thereof as default. Confounding perceptual properties such as hue and brightness make RGB-based palettes more prone to misinterpretation. Additionally, they are often highly saturated, which makes looking at them for a longer period strenuous. Switching to a color model corresponding to the perceptual dimensions of human color vision avoids these problems. We show several practically relevant examples using such a model, the HCL color model, to explain how it works and what its advantages are. Moreover, the paper contains several tips on how to easily integrate this knowledge into software commonly used by the community, which should help readers to switch over to the new concept. The switch will result in a greatly improved quality and readability of visualized atmospheric science data for research, teaching, and communication of results to society."
Q59|Desigualdad en la distribución mundial de emisiones de CO2 por sectores: Descomposición y estudio de sensibilidad/Inequality of Global Distribution of CO2 Emissions by Sector: Decomposition and Sensitivity Study|En este trabajo se analiza la desigualdad en la distribución mundial de emisiones de CO2 por sectores, para las regiones del PNUD en el año 2009, mediante el índice de Theil-Bourguignon, que permite descomponer la desigual¬dad total en la distribución por grupos de población. Cabe destacar que la mayor desigualdad en las emisiones de CO2 por sectores se produce en regiones que están formadas por países pobres o en vías de desarrollo. Asimismo, los resultados proporcionan una mayor importancia relativa al componente de desigualdad intragrupos. Posteriormente, se completa el estudio anterior mediante un análisis de sensibilidad de los componentes de desigualdad, utilizando la familia de índices de entropía generalizada. Dichos resultados señalan de nuevo el importante peso del componente intragrupos. In this paper, inequality of global distribution of CO2 emissions by sector is studied across the regions considered by the UNDP in the year 2009. Firstly, the research is carried out using the Theil-Bourguignon inequality index which can be decomposed into the within-group and the between-group inequality components. The greatest inequality in CO2 emissions by sector occurs in regions that are formed by poor or developing countries. The results show also that the within-group inequality component is the main contributor to the whole inequality value. Secondly, the study is completed using the family of Generalized Entropy indexes, where the within-group inequality component is the main contributor to the whole inequality value too.
Q59|Environmental Policy In Romania: A Component Of The Overall Sustainable Development|This article aims to analyze some aspects of the interconnection between economic prosperity and environmental conservation as a primary activity in the support of sustainable development. Romania, in order to implement environmental strategy developed the first National Action Plan for Environmental Protection in 1995, which is a tool for implementing environmental policies, by promoting, supporting and tracking of the most important projects with significant impact on the application and enforcement of the environmental legislation. To contribute to the development of less developed region Romania must invest in the development of effective environmental management systems necessary for the protection or exploitation of natural resources in order to improve the quality of public services for the population and create a competitive business environment.
Q59|Spatial analysis of dumpsites volumes from rural territory Case study: Neamt County, Romania|Open dumps was the main option of the local communities in household waste management, this practice being banned after July 16, 2009. The paper examines the correlation between dumpsites volumes, population density and local geographical conditions in the context that in most rural administrative-territorial units of the county there were no facilities for waste collection. The geographical distribution of dumpsites volumes reflects the disparities between different areas of the county and on the other hand, it highlights the spaces exposed to pollution. Also, the comparative analysis between 2004 (pre-accession) and 2009 (post-accession) reflects a rudimentary waste management system in this period which favored the waste dumping. This paper analyses the issues of rural waste management and its environmental implications at local scale. Such approaches are necessary for a proper analysis of EU environmental policies implementation at regional and local level.
Q59|Financial health of beneficiaries of Czech and Slovak Operational Program Environment|This paper is focused on the financial health of beneficiaries who are supported by EU funds in the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic. The Operational program Environment is selected for our further analysis because it exists in both the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic and the second most important in the aspect of total money allocation in both countries. The supported units are divided into two groups - business and others. The financial health of supported business units is evaluated with the help of Altman Z-Score model predicting financial distress. The financial situation is valuated for Czech and Slovak companies and the results are compared. Differences are explained in the part Discussion.
Q59|Na institucích záleží! Ale proč?<BR>[Institutions Matter! But Why?]|The commentary defends the central idea of current institutional social research - that institutions are significant variables influencing the human action regarding the resource allocation. This idea was strongly opposed by the scientific board of the Czech economic faculty (institutionally oriented economic research was labeled as needless). The goal is to open the debate about this issue and ask the opponents to formulate concrete objections. Theoretical arguments and empirical examples are raised in favor of the institutional economics.
Q59|Risk Management and Portfolio Optimization for Gas- and Coal-fired Power Plants in Germany: A Multivariate GARCH Approach|This study revisits risk management in the German power market, specifically focusing on conventional thermal power generation. The subsidizing and prioritizing of electricity produced from renewable energy sources (RES) by means of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) has changed the market’s structure. Specifically, it has led to an erosion of the revenues gained by coal- and natural-gas-fired power plants and, therefore, undermined the competitiveness of traditional power generation. This fact has brought to the forefront the necessity of mitigating the risk exposure in order to tackle the worsening situation for conventional power plant owners. The approach adopted in this paper is to assess and choose the optimum forward contract for hedging the power output and fuel purchase simultaneously. This is done by evaluating the hedging effectiveness of the futures contracts available at the European Energy Exchange (EEX) in Leipzig. The hedging performance is evaluated on the basis of a multivariate GARCH model (the BEKK model). Finally, in the framework of portfolio optimization, we construct the efficient frontier, so as to identify the point at which the combination of spot and forward prices gives the minimization of risk exposure.
Q59|Natural Capital, Human Evolution And The Propensity Towards Preserving Nature|This paper seeks to add to the growing body of research on sustainability, by bringing in an interdisciplinary view, with focus on psychology. Key recent research in other fields, such as biology and anthropology is outlined, and the implications on the two main paradigms of sustainability are presented. Building on these implications from other fields of study, we denote the affinity one has for the natural environment as propensity towards preserving nature. This can be a useful tool for implementing sustainable development strategies, as well as gauging the general attitude towards protecting the natural environment and conservation of natural resources. Most importantly, it introduces the field of environmental psychology to the economics debate on sustainability.
Q59|Environmental management and its application in the Slovak Republic|The Paper aims at implementation of environmnental management in the condition of Slovak Republic. Systems of the environmental management represent the mean of practical realization of environmental requirements, competitiveness indicator, tool of the sustainable development support and acknowledgement of good environmental behaviour by regulation of the business activities impacts. Standard scientific research methods included synthesis, analysis and comparative method.
Q59|Cultural and Political Determinants of Air Quality|This paper investigates empirically the determinants of air quality in a large cross-section of countries. We assess air quality by sulfur emissions and, following the literature, we consider three different groups of determinants: economic, political and cultural. We confirm the existence of an EKC for sulfur (inverted-U shaped relation between wealth and pollution). Political determinants are proxied by ethnic or religious fractionalization indexes and the country’s legal origin (we consider five possible legal origins: English common law, French civil law, German civil law, Scandinavian legal system and Socialist legal system). Cultural determinants are assessed by the percentage of a country’s population that belongs to one of the three main religions (Catholic, Muslim or Protestant). Our goal is to establish the economic, political and cultural profile of a country that manages to be efficient in providing good air quality. We conclude that a country will provide higher air quality if it has one or more of the following characteristics: it is ethnic and/or religious homogeneous, it has a German or Scandinavian legal tradition; it is Protestant.
Q59|Environmental Evaluation and Benchmarking of Traditional Mediterranean Crop Farming System of Dryland Agriculture in the Alentejo Region of Portugal|This paper presents a case study in which the effects of traditional Mediterranean crop farming system of the Alentejo region of Portugal on environment are evaluated and benchmarked. With this objective a typical farm of the region using that traditional system based on a crop-rotation of durum wheat with sunflower and peas was selected. Environmental indicators were used to evaluate production activities environmental effects. These include nitrogen balance and energy input determined using input and output processes analysis, and greenhouse gas emissions, acidification and eutrophication impacts and an aggregate eco-indicator evaluated using life cycle analysis. Results show the relevance of rotating other crops with cereals to control environmental effects and promote typical Mediterranean crop farming system sustainability. Green peas and sunflower estimated contribution is a 40% decrease of overall composite indicator system impact. Energetic input and nitrogen balance levels of these crops also allow for a substantial reduction (34 and 24 %) of magnitude of average environmental effects of crop system due to their lower intensification energy and nitrogen input levels. Benchmarking of environmental indicators for Mediterranean traditional crop farming system of the Alentejo indicates that results are within bounds reported in the environmental scientific literature interval at levels below average, indicating relatively low environmental impacts relatively to other farming systems.
Q59|Una revisión a la reglamentación e incentivos de las energías renovables en Colombia|El documento analiza las estrategias de: promoción, producción, desarrollo o adaptación de las energías renovables en el país. El desarrollo de esta investigación partió del actual Plan Energético Nacional en lo referente a los lineamientos en materia de política energética. De igual manera se retomaron los programas, las leyes, los planes y los decretos relacionados con la planeación, ejecución y operación de los proyectos energéticos. La investigación realizada permitió concluir que existen leyes e incentivos, principalmente de carácter tributario, que promueven el desarrollo de las energías renovables. Sin embargo, en el país aún se requiere profundizar en estudios que generen cuantificaciones continuas del potencial de implementación de fuentes no convencionales de energía, de manera que se mejoren las políticas energéticas, permitiendo establecer estrategias de largo plazo que involucren los componentes sociales y ambientales.
Q59|On voluntary eco-labeling and fiscal incentives|The conditions under which a government would initiate a fiscal incentive scheme to encourage the use of an eco-label in a duopoly are determined. The results reveal a scope for fiscal incentive provision in conjunction with the eco-label scheme for highly polluting industries.
Q59|What are the starting points? Evaluating base-year assumptions in the Asian Modeling Exercise|A common feature of model inter-comparison efforts is that the base year numbers for important parameters such as population and GDP can differ substantially across models. This paper explores the sources and implications of this variation in Asian countries across the models participating in the Asian Modeling Exercise (AME). Because the models do not all have a common base year, each team was required to provide data for 2005 for comparison purposes. This paper compares the year 2005 information for different models, noting the degree of variation in important parameters, including population, GDP, primary energy, electricity, and CO2 emissions. It then explores the difference in these key parameters across different sources of base-year information. The analysis confirms that the sources provide different values for many key parameters. This variation across data sources and additional reasons why models might provide different base-year numbers, including differences in regional definitions, differences in model base year, and differences in GDP transformation methodologies, are then discussed in the context of the AME scenarios. Finally, the paper explores the implications of base-year variation on long-term model results.
Q59|Volunteering, pro-environmental attitudes and norms|In the spirit of previous work in the compliance literature (e.g., tax, littering), we investigate whether environmental social norms affect volunteering in environmental organizations. Using two ‘environmental morale’ variables as indirect measures, we analyze the impact of social norms on the incidence of unpaid work in environmental organizations. In addition, we test whether violation of a specific environmental norm initiates a conditional cooperation response. We explore a large individual data set covering 32 countries from both Western and Eastern Europe, and extend the number of countries investigated to test the robustness of the relationship at the macro level. Our results indicate a strong positive relationship between the proxies for environmental social norms and volunteering in environmental organizations. The relationship persists despite our various robustness checks.
Q59|Forecast based Pricing of Weather Derivatives|Forecasting based pricing of Weather Derivatives (WDs) is a new approach in valuation of contingent claims on nontradable underlyings. Standard techniques are based on historical weather data. Forward-looking information such as meteorological forecasts or the implied market price of risk (MPR) are often not incorporated. We adopt a risk neutral approach (for each location) that allows the incorporation of meteorological forecasts in the framework of WD pricing. We study weather Risk Premiums (RPs) implied from either the information MPR gain or the meteorological forecasts. The size of RPs is interesting for investors and issuers of weather contracts to take advantages of geographic diversification, hedging effects and price determinations. By conducting an empirical analysis to London and Rome WD data traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), we find out that either incorporating the MPR or the forecast outperforms the standard pricing techniques.
Q59|Statistical Modelling of Temperature Risk|Recently the topic of global warming has become very popular. The literature has concentrated its attention on the evidence of such eect, either by detecting regime shifts or change points in time series. The majority of these methods are designed to nd shifts in mean, but only few can do this for the variance. In this paper we attempt to investigate the statistical evidence of global warming by identi- fying shifts in seasonal mean of daily average temperatures over time and in seasonal variance of temperature residuals. We present a time series approach for modelling temperature dynamics. A seasonal mean Lasso-type technique based with a multi- plicative structure of Fourier and GARCH terms in volatility is proposed. The model describes well the stylised facts of temperature: seasonality, intertemporal correla- tions and the heteroscedastic behaviour of residuals. The application to European temperature data indicates that the multiplicative model for the seasonal variance performs better in terms of out of sample forecast than other models proposed in the literature for modelling temperature dynamics. We study the dynamics of the seasonal variance by implementing quantile and expectile functions with condence corridor to detrended and deseasonalized residuals. We show that shifts in seasonal mean and variance vary from location to location, indicating that all sources of trends other than mean and variance would rise trends over spatial scales. The local eects of temperature risk support the existence of global warming.
Q59|Environmental Taxation as a Tool for Sustainable Development Policy-State Comparison of Serbia and Application of Ecological Taxation Reform in European Union|National Strategy for Sustainable Development of Serbia has given clear guidelines for the direction of the economy, respect for ecological principles, development and implementation of better social and institutional policies. Environmental taxes and all other taxes, the fiscal revenue, but its application has special significance, because in addition to economic, it is ecological, institutional and social character, and as such it is an instrument of sustainable development. With this work the authors suggest moving the value of revenues from environmental taxes in the EU in the period 2005-2010. As this is a period characterized by economic problems caused by the crisis in all countries, there has been a decline in revenues from environmental taxes even in the most developed EU countries. n average, the EU has achieved the highest revenues from environmental taxes in 2008. The largest revenue from environmental taxes has made Germany (EUR 56.031,00 million) at the beginning of the period, while the lowest income in the value of (138,21 million EUR) has made Malta. It should be noted that a downward trend in the character of all countries except Slovenia and Estonia, which joined the EU in 2004. Income that is realized by the collection of environmental taxes is significant and is measured in tens of million, but there is a possibility that the position of business entities that pay for it because it makes it difficult to become less competitive. This paper provides an overview of key economic issues in the use of taxation as an instrument of environmental policy.
Q59|The Relationship Between Good Governance And Carbon Dioxide Emissions: Evidence From Developing Economies|This paper examines the relationship between five dimensions of good governance (political stability, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and corruption) and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in a cross-section of developing countries. Two measures of CO2 emissions are utilized: CO2 emissions in kilograms per 2000 US dollars of gross domestic product (GDP) and in metric tons per capita. Robust results are obtained for a number of variables when the dependent variable is CO2 emissions in metric tons per capita. The results provide confirmation that political stability, the rule of law, and control of corruption are negatively and statistically significantly correlated with CO2 emissions per capita. The results also provide evidence in support of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) and that trade openness and the size of industrial sector as other strong correlates of CO2 emissions.
Q59|Farsight and Myopia in a Transboundary Pollution Game|We study the impact of farsightedness in a transboundary pollution game; i.e. the ability of a country to forecast the relationship between current emissions and future levels of pollution and thus on future damages. We show that when all countries are farsighted their payo s are larger than when all countries are myopic. However in the case where one myopic country becomes farsighted we show that the welfare impact of farsightedness on that country is ambiguous. Farsightedness may be welfare reducing for the country that acquires it. This is due to the reaction of the other farsighted countries to that country's acquisition of farsight. The country that acquires farsight reduces its emissions while the other farsighted countries extend their emissions. The overall impact on total emissions is ambiguous.
Q59|On the behavioural relevance of optional and mandatory impure public goods: results from a laboratory experiment|Ethical goods are increasingly available in markets for conventional goods giving pro-ethically motivated consumers a convenient option to contribute to public goods. In a previous experiment we explored the behavioural relevance of impure public goods in a within-subject setting and observed reduced aggregate pro-social behavior in the presence of impure goods that favor private consumption at the expense of public good provision. In this experiment, we implement a between-subject design to test the behavioural relevance of impure public goods with only a token contribution to a public good cause. From a theoretical perspective, assuming people demand private and public characteristics regardless of how they are provided, we would expect no behavioural relevance of the presence of impure public goods. However, this experiment establishes that pro-social behaviour defined as contributing to a public good, is negatively affected by impure goods with token contributions, in comparison to when they are absent. Furthermore, if the token impure good is mandatory instead of optional the negative effect on pro-social behaviour seems to be offset. The results from this experiment suggest impure public goods are not behaviourally irrelevant, can decrease pro-social behaviour but their optional or mandatory nature can have different behavioural consequences.
Q59|"Revisión de la metodología empleada y resultados alcanzados en la investigación sobre actuación medioambiental de la empresa y rendimiento económico (1972-2009) || Review of Methodology and Results of Research on Environmental Management of the Firm and Economic Performance (1972-2009)"|"La variable “medio ambiente"" ha cobrado una creciente importancia en la gestión empresarial. Durante las dos últimas décadas la investigación empírica sobre la relación existente entre la actuación medioambiental de la empresa y su rendimiento económico ha sido uno de los temas recurrentes. No obstante, se detectan diversas lagunas en este ámbito de estudio, como la falta de conformación de un marco teórico y de una metodología de investigación fiable que permita contrastar y comparar los resultados obtenidos, al objeto de orientar adecuadamente a investigadores o decisores empresariales interesados por la gestión medioambiental. Así, la evidencia empírica sobre dicha relación presenta, a veces, resultados contradictorios. Por ello, el objetivo perseguido en este trabajo es doble. Por una parte, se realiza una profunda revisión de la literatura a fin de identificar y tratar de sistematizar el tipo de estudios realizados, las técnicas de análisis empleadas, los factores clave de dicha relación, las carencias de tales estudios, etc., identificando el signo predominante de la relación objeto de estudio. Por otra, se intenta fomentar la reflexión crítica sobre la investigación realizada y se plantean algunas sugerencias para futuras investigaciones. || The `environment' factor has become increasingly important in business management. The relationship between the environmental behavior of the company and its economic performance has been one of the recurring themes of research, especially in the last two decades. However, many gaps still exist in this field of study, such as the lack of a theoretical framework and a methodology that allow reliable research in order to empirically contrast and compare the results of the different studies. Thus, we found that the empirical evidence on this relationship sometimes presents contradictory results. Therefore, this work has two objectives. On the one hand, we review the existing literature in order to identify and systematize the type of studies, the analysis techniques, the key factors of such relationship, the shortcomings and limitations of these studies, etc. trying to throw some light on the sign of the target relation. On the other hand, we look for fostering critical reflection, and we make some suggestions for future research."
Q59|Information and Communication Technologies for Sustainable Natural Resource Management|The natural resources of most developing countries are under increasing stress, and many nations are increasingly concerned about achieving environmental sustainability through efficient use of land and water resources. As population is escalating very fast and consumer demand for high value agricultural products (fruits and vegetables, animal or fish products, etc.) is also changing rapidly. Hence, there is need to take stronger step by national government to monitor their natural resources and take immediate steps to maintain these resources when being overused. Data generation by visiting the place physically is tedious and time consuming. Modern ICT techniques provide the solution helpful in collecting data without visiting the place from distance. With development of modern technologies, ICTs are of immense use in Sustainable Natural Resource Management. These technologies are time and money saving, accurate compared to conventional assessment. Products of these technologies help the scientists and policy makers for taking appropriate decision in agriculture production. It is thus important to recognize that the dissemination of these land and water-use management practices are largely knowledge-based; therefore, developing countries will be required to make substantial investment in public extension to train small and medium-scale farmers how to use Sustainable Natural Resource Management (SNRM) practices.
Q59|Устойчиво потребление в България, Издателски комплекс – УНСС, София, 2012 (Sustainable consumption in Bulgaria, Publishing complex - University of National and World Economy, Sofia, 2012), ISBN 978-954-644-389-2<BR>[Sustainable consumption in Bulgaria,Publishing complex - University of National and World Economy, Sofia, 2012]|The book is the first edition in the field of sustainable consumption in Bulgaria. It contains both summarized bibliographical data and original scientific research resulting from a project implemented by a group of lecturers and researchers from the University of National and World Economy - Sofia. All stakeholders in Bulgaria have an explicitly stated need for practical assistance in creating public understanding and attitudes to the essence and importance of sustainable consumption. Education in this area directs: consumers to an informed choice of sustainable products during purchase; policy makers to the adoption of an appropriate framework for sustainable consumption and production; businesses to the development of new products with reduced environmental impact. The authors hope to respond to these needs to a considerable degree. The aim of Sustainable Consumption in Bulgaria is to provide appropriate and accessible information on the nature and principles of sustainable consumption and to describe albeit few sustainable patterns of ecologically responsible behaviour of Bulgarian consumers. The book is intended for government institutions and the businesses to support their work and to contribute to sustainable behaviour patterns. Appropriate policies, business strategies, product design and informed consumer choice are key to achieving sustainable development. It can be used by packaging waste utilization organizations, consumer organizations, non-governmental environmental organizations, educational institutions, and parents to support sustainable consumer education. The authors are delighted that a few days after the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development held in Rio de Janeiro, RIO + 20, they have the opportunity to familiarize Bulgarian readers with their many years of scientific research in this area.
Q59|El rendimiento educativo y sus determinantes según PISA: Una revisión de la literatura en España|La publicación de los resultados de la cuarta oleada del Informe PISA ha vuelto a poner de relieve la distancia que sigue existiendo entre nuestro país y nuestros principales competidores. El evidente interés por reducir esa distancia ha dado lugar en los últimos años a la proliferación de estudios empíricos que, tomando como base la información proporcionada por esta base de datos, han tratado de indagar acerca de cuáles son los principales determinantes del rendimiento educativo en nuestro país. El objetivo de este trabajo consiste en la revisión sistemática de estas investigaciones con el propósito de clasificarlos, ordenarlos y extraer sus principales conclusiones, cuyo interés para el desarrollo de medidas de política educativa resulta evidente.
Q59|Los resultados educativos españoles en PISA 2009 y sus condicionantes|La publicación de los últimos resultados del Informe PISA 2009 (Programme for International Student Assessment), vuelven a poner de manifiesto que el nivel educativo de los estudiantes españoles se sitúa en una posición muy discreta en relación al resto de participantes. No obstante, si se observan las puntuaciones obtenidas por los alumnos pertenecientes a las distintas regiones españolas que participan en la evaluación con una muestra representativa, se pueden apreciar divergencias significativas. El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar los condicionantes que explican estas diferencias regionales en el rendimiento de los alumnos españoles mediante un estudio econométrico que nos permite conectar las habilidades demostradas por los estudiantes con los recursos con los recursos que tienen a su disposición, prestando especial atención al papel que juegan en el proceso de aprendizaje tanto las escuelas como el contexto familiar de los estudiantes. Con este propósito, en una primera fase del estudio, se emplean técnicas de regresión multinivel, puesto que los datos disponibles están anidados en diferentes niveles (alumnos y escuelas).
Q59|International Environmental Agreements in the Presence of Adaptation|We show that adaptive measures undertaken by countries in the face of climate change, apart from directly reducing the damage caused by climate change, may also indirectly mitigate greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the stable size of international agreements on emission reductions. Moreover, we show that the more effective the adaptive measure in terms of reducing the marginal damage from emissions, the larger the stable size of the international environmental agreement. In addition, we show that larger coalitions, in the presence of adaptation, may lead to lower global emission levels and higher welfare.
Q59|Weather Derivatives as Risk Management Tool in Ecuador: A Case Study of Rice Production| This paper analyzes efficiency of weather derivatives as insurance instruments for rice in Ecuador. Weather derivatives were constructed for each county/season combination. Complicated weather models were estimated for the index, and a copula approach was used to get the probability distributions. We find Risk-reducing efficiency varies across county and season.
Q59|Environmental Audit, A Possible Source Of Information For Financial Auditors|The purpose of this article is to present certain aspects regarding environmental auditand how it is perceived by the accounting profession, especially by financial auditors. The mainobjectives taken into account when writing the article was to define the concept of environmental audit,to present how financial auditors get involved within environmental audit, both internationally and inRomania. The scientific approach is based on information from national literature, European andinternational practice regarding environmental audit and the implication of accounting professionalsin this activity. The results of the research conducted in this paper have shown that the accountingprofession at international level, such as the case of New Zeeland, as well as at national level, is onlyslightly involved in environmental audit due to the fact that this type of audit is an activity that is notmandatory, being used for the entity’s own use as opposed to financial audit, which is mandatory andis stipulated by accounting regulations in force and is standardized.
Q59|La educación medioambiental en España: Una aproximación a partir de los datos de PISA 2006|El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar los principales determinantes de la formación en cuestiones medioambientales de los jóvenes españoles a partir de la base de datos del programa PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment), cuya oleada de 2006 ofrece un gran volumen de información sobre el rendimiento en ciencias de los alumnos de 15 años de la mayoría de los países de la OCDE, prestando especial atención al papel que juegan las escuelas en el proceso de aprendizaje. Para ello, utilizamos técnicas de regresión multi-nivel, puesto que los datos disponibles están anidados en diferentes niveles (alumnos y escuelas). De acuerdo a los resultados obtenidos, las actividades de formación y promoción llevadas a cabo por las escuelas parecen tener un impacto muy reducido sobre los alumnos.
Q59|Overcoming grape growers’ pesticide lock-in|An evolutionary framework is used here to study the issue of pesticide reduction in vineyards. After analyzing grape growers’ pesticide lock-in we show that, although Integrated Pest Management (IPM) could reduce pesticide use significantly, the lack of specific implementation know-how hampers its diffusion. Consequently, once the features of technological change for IPM have been scrutinized, we adopt a case analysis approach in which environmental regulation is envisaged as one possible way of promoting IPM diffusion. We also show that, however necessary such regulation is, it is insufficient: grape growers equally need extension services.
Q59|Localizing Temperature Risk| On the temperature derivative market, modeling temperature volatility is an important issue for pricing and hedging. To apply the pricing tools of financial mathematics, one needs to isolate a Gaussian risk factor. A conventional model for temperature dynamics is a stochastic model with seasonality and intertemporal autocorrelation. Empirical work based on seasonality and autocorrelation correction reveals that the obtained residuals are heteroscedastic with a periodic pattern. The object of this research is to estimate this heteroscedastic function so that, after scale normalization, a pure standardized Gaussian variable appears. Earlier works investigated temperature risk in different locations and showed that neither parametric component functions nor a local linear smoother with constant smoothing parameter are flexible enough to generally describe the variance process well. Therefore, we consider a local adaptive modeling approach to find, at each time point, an optimal smoothing parameter to locally estimate the seasonality and volatility. Our approach provides a more flexible and accurate fitting procedure for localized temperature risk by achieving nearly normal risk factors. We also employ our model to forecast the temperaturein different cities and compare it to a model developed in 2005 by Campbell and Diebold. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
Q59|El riesgo de disponibilidad de agua en la agricultura: una aplicación a las cuencas del Guadalquivir y del Segura/Water Availability Risk in Agriculture: An Application to Guadalquivir and Segura River Basins|La agricultura es un sector clave en la economía rural y constituye un motor de crecimiento en regiones del sur de España capaces de desarrollar un regadío competitivo de alto rendimiento. Este es el caso de determinadas comarcas de la Cuenca del Guadalquivir y del Segura, que no obstante afrontan los problemas derivados de la escasez creciente de agua y de un riesgo de sequía cada vez más acusado. Para responder más efectivamente a estos problemas, se han aprobado recientemente una serie de Planes de Sequía que pretenden ofrecer una respuesta planeada y anticipada que sustituya a la gestión de emergencias del pasado. En este trabajo se estudia el impacto previsible de las reglas de decisión de dichos Planes de Sequía (aprobados sin ningún estudio previo sobre las repercusiones económicas de su aplicación), con el objetivo de evaluar si estos contribuyen o no a la sostenibilidad del regadío y por lo tanto de la economía rural y regional que se sustenta sobre esta actividad económica. Se desarrolla un modelo estocástico para evaluar las pérdidas económicas derivadas de la aplicación de los Planes de Sequía en el sector agrario, concluyendo que tales planes no suponen un avance en la sostenibilidad del regadío ni en la garantía de suministro para usos prioritarios. Agriculture is a key sector in rural economics. In some Southern Regions of Spain capable of developing a competitive irrigation sector, agriculture is a powerful means towards development. This is the case of many comarcas of Guadalquivir and Segura River Basins, which however face a growing water scarcity and drought risk. To respond these problems in an effective manner, a series of Planes de Sequía have been approved in order to give a planned and strategic response. This paper focuses on expected impact of new decision rules established in the Planes de Sequía (which were passed without any previous economic impact analysis) and assess whether or not they contribute to irrigation sustainability and thus regional and rural economics development. This paper develops a stochastic model to assess economic loss derived from Planes de Sequía implementation over irrigated agriculture. Conclusions show that Planes de Sequía do not warrantee irrigation sustainability and priority uses water supply.
Q59|Monetary Valuation with Impact Pathway Analysis: Benefits of Reducing Nitrate Leaching in European Catchments|Integrated assessment frameworks which can account comprehensively for the benefits related to water quality improvements have not yet been established. The main challenge is to link economic valuation with hydrological data in an appropriate way. We here explore the so-called 'impact pathway approach' as a novel analytical method in the area of water management. It can identify site- and catchment-specific benefits associated with management measures by linking economic and hydrological data through consecutive modelling stages, allowing for monetization of specific end point effects. This bottom-up methodology generates different results for different catchments. We explore damages of nitrate pollution in six European catchments within a framework that addresses surface water quality as well as water as a healthy resource for abstraction of drinking water. It is a first attempt with this method to address diffuse agricultural pollution, focusing on priority pathways.
Q59|The problem of maintaining compliance within stable coalitions: experimental evidence| This study examines the performance of stable cooperative coalitions that form to provide a public good when coalition members have the opportunity to violate their commitments. A stable coalition is one in which no member wishes to leave and no non-member wishes to join. To counteract the incentive to violate their commitments, coalition members fund a third-party enforcer. This leads to the theoretical conclusion that stable coalitions are larger, and provide more of a public good, when their members are responsible for financing enforcement. However, our experiments reveal that member-financed enforcement of compliance reduces the provision of the public good. The decrease is attributed to an increase in the participation threshold for a stable coalition to form and to significant levels of noncompliance. Provision of the public good increases significantly when we abandon the strict stability conditions and require all subjects to join a coalition for it to form. Copyright 2011 Oxford University Press 2010 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.
Q59|The Politics of Ethical Consumption|Ethical consumption as a political project is often rejected because it is considered too individualized to achieve a collective consciousness; companies simply take avoiding action; it is immoral for corporations to respond -unless it is clearly profitable for them to do so or that ownership of all resources would be a preferable way to ensure environmental stewardship. The idea of deploying consumption preferences in the market fits the neo-liberal concept of ‘consumer sovereignty’, that theory presupposed only individualized self-interest being expressed by consumers. This uncertainty leaves some debate about the nature and efficacy of ethical consumption.
Q59|Ecological Consumer Behavior – Influencial Factors -|The study of the consumer behavior is a complex task because it is possible to analyze it from different points of view. So, if we investigate the ecological consumer behavior we realize that it is also difficult to establish the limits that clearly define the profile of a consumer who acts in an environmentally friendly manner. Consequently, the measurement, the conceptual delimitation of this behavior and the identification of the ecological segment in the market are essential aspects for the commercial strategies development of the companies. Regarding the definition of this concept and its measurement, it seems reasonable to think that these consumers are those who are concerned about environmental problems. Very often, their behavior is characterized by their attitudes and actions towards the environmental protection.
Q59|Del metabolismo social al metabolismo hídrico|Para estudiar las interdependencias biofísicas del sistema económico, Fischer-Kowalski (1997), propuso el concepto de metabolismo social, como analogía al metabolismo biológico, buscando la descripción y cuantificación de los flujos de materia y energía que se intercambian entre los sistemas económico, social, territorial, medioambiental, etc. Desde que se popularizara esta analogía tan útil para analizar las interdependencias citadas, la proliferación de trabajos, abordando el estudio del metabolismo desde diversas perspectivas, ha sido notable. Sin embargo, esta proliferación ha dado lugar a una confusión entre lo que es y no es metabolismo. En nuestra investigación, el objetivo principal es definir el metabolismo hídrico del sistema económico en base y como analogía al metabolismo social. No obstante, y detectado un interesante debate entre las diferentes visiones del concepto de metabolismo, creemos necesario analizar, ordenar y estructurar, como objetivo intermedio, estos diversos enfoques que hay del metabolismo social para así, determinar el concepto de metabolismo con el que trabajaremos y, a partir de él, definiremos nuestro objetivo principal. En este trabajo pues, presentamos el resultado del análisis del debate en torno al concepto de metabolismo y una primera aproximación al concepto propuesto de metabolismo hídrico. Partiendo del concepto de metabolismo social que presentan González de Molina y Toledo (2009), nuestra propuesta consiste en plantear el metabolismo hídrico como un marco de análisis, que engloba la imprescindible contextualización de las estimaciones hídricas.
Q59|GIS-based estimation of housing amenities: the case of high grounds and stagnant streams|We use GIS and econometric methods to estimate the marginal implicit values of environmental amenities associated with residential land parcels in the mountain town of Logan, Utah. Amenities include proximity to open spaces (such as parks, golf courses and lakes), commercial zones, major roads, streams, and general visibility of surrounding topography in the valley as determined by the elevation of the land parcel. The amenity value estimates are corrected for spatial autocorrelation. We find a positive relationship between a parcelâ€™s value and its elevation, and a negative relationship between value and adjacency to a stagnant stream. To our knowledge, this is the first hedonic study to assess the effect of stream stagnancy on land value.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q59|International Environmental Agreements in the Presence of Adaptation| We show that adaptive measures undertaken by countries in the face of climate change, apart from directly reducing the damage caused by climate change, may also indirectly mitigate greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the stable size of international agreements on emission reductions. Moreover, we show that the more effective the adaptive measure in terms of reducing the marginal damage from emissions, the larger the stable size of the international environmental agreement. In addition, we show that larger coalitions, in the presence of adaptation, may lead to lower global emission levels and higher welfare.
Q59|Adaptation Effectiveness and Free-Riding Incentives in International Environmental Agreements|While an international agreement over the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emissions proves to be elusive, there is a large and growing support for investment in developing more effective technologies to adapt to climate change. We show that an increase in effectiveness of adaptation will diminish the incentive of individual countries to free-ride on a global agreement over emissions. Moreover, we show that this positive effect of an increase in adaptation's effectiveness can also be accompanied by an increase in the gains from global cooperation over GHGs emissions.
