R00|The economic effects of big events: evidence from the Great Jubilee 2000 in Rome|This paper assesses the short- and long-term economic impact of the Great Jubilee 2000 on the city of Rome’s economy; this is an important Catholic event that occurs every 25 years. By applying the synthetic control approach, we find that the value added per capita increases slightly in the short term while in the long term it is not significantly different from what it would have been if Rome had not hosted the Jubilee. However, we do find a significant effect on the employment rate. Consistently with these findings, we document a shift of the local economy towards less productive sectors, such as construction and services requiring a lower skill content, and an overall productivity loss for/in Rome with respect to the counterfactual scenario. The investment in infrastructure, facilities and urban requalification did not significantly affect tourism or house prices in the long run, with exception of peripheral residential areas which experienced an appreciation.
R00|Cross-border transport infrastructure in the EU|The report provides a set of indicators and tools that allow policy makers to measure accessibility and connectivity of border regions in Europe at both national and international levels. The methodology can be used to identify areas where transport infrastructure may be lacking and prioritize potential investments based on specific policy relevant criteria. The approach uses very detailed spatially disaggregate data covering EU28 plus Norway and Switzerland at grid level (1km by 1km), as well as the complete road network. This level of resolution allows many of the specificities of the areas covered to be taken into account.
R00|The future of road transport|"A perfect storm of new technologies and new business models is transforming not only our vehicles, but everything about how we get around, and how we live our lives. The JRC report ""The future of road transport - Implications of automated, connected, low-carbon and shared mobility"" looks at some main enablers of the transformation of road transport, such as data governance, infrastructures, communication technologies and cybersecurity, and legislation. It discusses the potential impacts on the economy, employment and skills, energy use and emissions, the sustainability of raw materials, democracy, privacy and social fairness, as well as on the urban context. It shows how the massive changes on the horizon represent an opportunity to move towards a transport system that is more efficient, safer, less polluting and more accessible to larger parts of society than the current one centred on car ownership. However, new transport technologies, on their own, won't spontaneously make our lives better without upgrading our transport systems and policies to the 21st century. The improvement of governance and the development of innovative mobility solutions will be crucial to ensure that the future of transport is cleaner and more equitable than its car-centred present."
R00|The Future of Cities: Opportunities, challenges and the way forward|This report is an initiative of the Joint Research Centre (JRC), the science and knowledge service of the European Commission (EC), and supported by the Commission's Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG REGIO). It highlights drivers shaping the urban future, identifying both the key challenges cities will have to address and the strengths they can capitalise on to proactively build their desired futures. The main aim of this report is to raise open questions and steer discussions on what the future of cities can, and should be, both within the science and policymaker communities. While addressing mainly European cities, examples from other world regions are also given since many challenges and solutions have a global relevance. The report is particularly novel in two ways. First, it was developed in an inclusive manner â€“ close collaboration with the ECâ€™s Community of Practice on Cities (CoP-CITIES) provided insights from the broader research community and city networks, including individual municipalities, as well as Commission services and international organisations. It was also extensively reviewed by an Editorial Board. Secondly, the report is supported by an online â€˜livingâ€™ platform which will host future updates, including additional analyses, discussions, case studies, comments and interactive maps that go beyond the scope of the current version of the report. Steered by the JRC, the platform will offer a permanent virtual space to the research, practice and policymaking community for sharing and accumulating knowledge on the future of cities. This report is produced in the framework of the EC Knowledge Centre for Territorial Policies and is part of a wider series of flagship Science for Policy reports by the JRC, investigating future perspectives concerning Artificial Intelligence, the Future of Road Transport, Resilience, Cybersecurity and Fairness Interactive online platform: https://urban.jrc.ec.europa.eu/thefutureofcities
R00|The Effect of High-Tech Clusters on the Productivity of Top Inventors|"The high-tech sector is increasingly concentrated in a small number of expensive cities, with the top ten cities in ""Computer Science"", ""Semiconductors"" and ""Biology and Chemistry"", accounting for 70%, 79% and 59% of inventors, respectively. Why do inventors tend to locate near other inventors in the same field, despite the higher costs? I use longitudinal data on top inventors based on the universe of US patents 1971 - 2007 to quantify the productivity advantages of Silicon-Valley style clusters and their implications for the overall production of patents in the US. I relate the number of patents produced by an inventor in a year to the size of the local cluster, defined as a city x research field x year. I first study the experience of Rochester NY, whose high-tech cluster declined due to the demise of its main employer, Kodak. Due to the growth of digital photography, Kodak employment collapsed after 1996, resulting in a 49.2% decline in the size of the Rochester high-tech cluster. I test whether the change in cluster size affected the productivity of inventors outside Kodak and the photography sector. I find that between 1996 and 2007 the productivity of non-Kodak inventors in Rochester declined by 20.6% relative to inventors in other cities, conditional on inventor fixed effects. In the second part of the paper, I turn to estimates based on all the data in the sample. I find that when an inventor moves to a larger cluster she experiences significant increases in the number of patents produced and the number of citations received. Conditional on inventor, firm, and city _ year effects, the elasticity of number of patents produced with respect to cluster size is 0.0662 (0.0138). The productivity increase follows the move and there is no evidence of pre-trends. IV estimates based on the geographical structure of firms with laboratories in multiple cities are statistically similar to OLS estimates. In the final part of the paper, I use the estimated elasticity of productivity with respect to cluster size to quantify the aggregate effects of geographical agglomeration on the overall production of patents in the US. I find macroeconomic benefits of clustering for the US as a whole. In a counterfactual scenario where the quality of U.S. inventors is held constant but their geographical location is changed so that all cities have the same number of inventors in each field, inventor productivity would increase in small clusters and decline in large clusters. On net, the overall number of patents produced in the US in a year would be 11.07% smaller."
R00|The Internal Spatial Organization of Firms: Evidence from Denmark|While multi-establishment firms are an important part of the economy, little is known about their spatial organization. In this article, we study how the location and the occupational composition of establishments within firms has changed during the last 36 years. Using Danish administrative employer-employee data, we present a series of stylized facts regarding the spatial internal organization of firms. We show that the average number of establishments at the firm level increased by 36% during this period. Moreover, the average distance of the establishments and workers to their headquarters has increased by more than 200%. These changes are mainly driven by increases in the average distance of production workers and business service workers, and a higher use of the latter. Finally, we show that the ratio of managers to production and clerical workers within firms has increased, in particular in establishments located in the largest urban municipalities. After presenting the facts, we briefly discuss some of the mechanisms that could be behind these changes.
R00|Location of Co-Working Spaces in the city| The present paper investigates the location patterns and the effects co-working spaces (CWS) generate on the urban context. The focus is on Barcelona, one of the most important creative hubs in Europe in terms of knowledge-based, creative, digital, and sharing economy, and the city hosting the largest number of co-working spaces in Spain. The paper addresses three main questions: 1) Which are the location patterns of co-working spaces in Barcelona? 2) Do CWS agglomerate in the same areas? And, 3) Do CWS coagglomerate with specific firm activities? To do that, this paper uses open data on Barcelona neighbourhoodsâ€™ socioeconomic composition provided by the Statistics Department of the Council of Barcelona and micro-geographic data of private CWS and creative labs in Barcelona. By using Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and Kd functions of agglomeration and coagglomeration, results show that CWS are highly concentrated in central areas of Barcelona where there are greater chances to meet customers and suppliers, the proximity to urban amenities and the fact of being associated to an specific place-image. Moreover, they coagglomerate with specific kinds of firms and to those most related to creative industries. These results are relevant when assessing what it should be the actual goal of urban policies in Barcelona. Keywords: co-working spaces, distance-based methods, agglomeration, coagglomeration, Barcelona. JEL: R00, R39, Z00
R00|Working Paper 01-19 - Future evolution of the car stock in Belgium: CASMO, the new satellite of PLANET|The new Belgian CAr Stock MOdel, which is linked to the national transport demand model PLANET, is structured as follows: (a) The total desired car stock in each future year is a function of the country's population and GDP per capita. (b) The probability that a car is scrapped is modelled as a function of its age and accumulated mileage. The desired car stock is then confronted with the remaining car stock to determine total car purchases. (c) Total sales are allocated to individual emission classes, using the parameter values of a Stated Preference discrete choice model. The model is then calibrated in order to reflect the current market and policy context in Belgium (d) The results are mapped into an inventory that is aggregated according to the EURO emission class. (e) In order to represent that the non-price barriers to electrified cars will decrease over time, we have implemented an alternative approach where the perceived acquisition costs decrease over time. Alternatively, this approach can be used to explore what would be the required decrease in subjective costs to reach a given future market share.
R00|Does inequality reduce mobility? The Great Gatsby Curve and its mechanisms|A body of evidence has emerged in the literature on intergenerational mobility documenting that countries with large income differences also have less intergenerational mobility: a relationship known as the Great Gatsby Curve. In this paper, I estimate the Great Gatsby Curve within Sweden exploiting both cross-sectional and longitudinal variation. I find that men who grew up in regions or periods with high levels of income inequality experienced less intergenerational mobility as adults, thereby confirming the existence of a Great Gatsby Curve in Sweden. I also present new evidence on the underlying mechanisms of the Great Gatsby Curve. By decomposing intergenerational mobility into separate transmission channels, I find that the mediating effects that educational attainment and cognitive and non-cognitive skills have on the persistence of socioeconomic status across generations drive the Great Gatsby Curve.
R00|Does the law of one price hold for hedonic prices?|Hedonic prices of locational attributes in urban land markets are determined by a process of spatial arbitrage that is similar to that which underpins the law of one price. If hedonic prices deviate from their spatial equilibrium values then individuals can benefit from changing locations. I examine whether the law holds for the hedonic price of rail access using a unique historical dataset for Berlin over the period 1890-1914, characterised by massive investment in the transport infrastructure. I estimate the hedonic price of rail access across multiple urban neighbourhoods and time periods to generate a panel dataset of hedonic price differences that I test for stationarity using a panel unit root test. Across multiple specifications I consistently fail to reject the null hypothesis of no unit root and accept the alternative hypothesis that the law holds. My estimates indicate a half-life for convergence to the law of one price that lies between 0.28 and 1.14 years. This result is consistent with spatial equilibrium.
R00|Winner-Take-All Cities|Abstract: This chapter examines the phenomenon “winner-take-all cities.” Large segments of the modern economy have been shown to conform to a “winner-take-all” pattern as superstar talent draws a disproportionate share of economic rewards (Rosen 1981; Adler 1985; Frank and Cook, 1996). But cities also conform to a winner-take-all pattern in which a small group of global “superstar cities” (Gyourko et al., 2013) account for a disproportionate share of talent, economic activity, innovation, and wealth (Florida, 2017). We track the distribution of several key factors to identify and describe this pattern of winner-take-all urbanism in global cities, using novel data on venture capital-backed startups and billionaire wealth, which we compare to the distribution of economic activity and population. Following the literature on global cities (Beaverstock et al., 1999; Taylor and Walker, 2001), we also examine the disproportionate share of these activities that are concentrated in so-called “alpha” global cities. We find clear evidence of a winner-take-all urbanism across the global economy and the world’s cities.
R00|Neighborhoods and youth health: Everybody needs good neighbors?|There are large differences in health across neighborhoods in Sweden. To try to answer if there is a causal link between neighborhood conditions in childhood and youth health, I apply two different empirical strategies. First, I use population wide data on families living in different areas in Sweden, and estimate the effects of childhood neighborhood on youth health using data on families that move across the country. Since the choice of moving and where to live is endogenous, I exploit the timing of moves and estimate the effect of siblings’ different exposure time to neighborhoods. The second approach utilizes a governmental policy that assigned refugees to their initial neighborhood in Sweden, potentially offering exogenous variation in neighborhoods and allowing me to study the effect of different neighborhoods on youth health. The findings from the two strategies together imply that there are significant neighborhoods effects on youth health, but that the effects are contemporaneous and there is no evidence of exposure time effects.
R00|What Makes a Locality Attractive? Estimates of the Amenity Value of Parks for Victoria|This paper provides the first estimates of the effects of parks on house prices within Victoria. We estimate hedonic regressions of house prices on the distance to six types of parks as well as a wide range of other amenities that may impact on house prices. We find some types of parks can have substantial positive impacts on house prices, particularly in regional Victoria. The results of this work can be used to construct estimates of the amenity value of a park for a rapid cost‐benefit analysis.
R00|Housing in a Mobile World: A Definition of Flexible Housing and the Classification of Solutions|The current global trend of increased migration influences housing requirements, specifically affordability and location flexibility. These requirements can be articulated by different housing solutions that are formulated in this paper. Despite the fact that numerous researchers have been studying the effects of traditional housing tenures, investigating new housing solutions has remained rather a limited field of study. In this paper, the term ?flexible housing? is used to describe a housing solution that enables households to relocate with ease while at the same time providing security, habitability and affordability.
R00|FinTech in Sub-Saharan Africa: What Has Worked Well, and What Hasn't|The FinTech sector has begun to grow rapidly in sub-Saharan Africa. I document far greater adoption of social media, digital currency, ride sharing, and other FinTech applications in countries with a common law legal heritage compared to those with a civil law system, suggesting that legal origin plays a critical role in setting the stage for growth through entrepreneurship in the developing world. The electrical, telecom, and Internet infrastructure required for FinTech has been built out more extensively in common law countries. Financial inclusion outcomes are also better in emerging markets that have a common law heritage.
R00|An analysis of urban environmental Kuznets curve of CO2 emissions: Empirical analysis of 276 global metropolitan areas|This study analyzed the relationship between urban CO2 emissions and economic growth applying the environmental Kuznets curve hypothesis. The objective of this study is to investigate how urban CO2 emissions and their composition have changed with urban economic growth, depending on city characteristics, using a dataset of metropolitan areas. We obtained data for 276 cities in 26 countries for the years 2000, 2005, and 2008. The dataset includes urban CO2 emissions, GDP, and population. Additionally, data regarding compact city variables are applied to determinants analysis using an econometric approach. The results demonstrate an inverted U-shape relationship between urban CO2 emissions and urban economic growth. Additionally, an inverted U-shape relationship is observed for the transport and residential & industry sectors. However, the turning points of each inverted U-shape curve varies. This result implies that we can better understand urban policies for reducing urban CO2 emissions by considering the characteristics of each sector.
R00|Firm Productivity and Cities: The Case of Colombia|In this paper we study the determinants of firm-level productivity in Colombia. We are interested in the effects of agglomeration forces that explain why manufacturing economic activity tends concentrate geographically as well as the effect of forces that can hurt productivity in high-density areas. An unfortunate major example of the latter forces in Colombia is its high levels of crime and terrorist attacks. We carry out this study by exploiting two very rich data sources: a firm-level panel which allows us to estimate firm-level productivity and a panel of municipality characteristics. To address selection and endogeneity issues in the estimation of firm-level productivity we use a control function approach. Our main findings are the following. First, scale economies do not seem to affect firm-level productivity. Second, we do find evidence of location economies (industrial specialization has a positive effect on productivity). Industrial variety, on the other hand, lowers productivity. It seems that firms in Colombia benefit from forming clusters and locating in cities with less industrial variety. We also find non-trivial effects of city fiscal performance, education level and quality, and crime and violent attacks.
R00|Place-specific Determinants of Income Gaps: New Sub-National Evidence from Chiapas, Mexico|The literature on income gaps between Chiapas and the rest of Mexico revolves around individual factors, such as education and ethnicity. Yet, twenty years after the Zapatista rebellion, the schooling gap between Chiapas and the other Mexican entities has shrunk while the income gap has widened, and we find no evidence indicating that Chiapas indigenes are worse-off than their likes elsewhere in Mexico. We explore a different hypothesis. Based on census data, we calculate the economic complexity index, a measure of the knowledge agglomeration embedded in the economic activities at a municipal level in Mexico. Economic complexity explains a larger fraction of the income gap than any individual factor. Our results suggest that chiapanecos are not the problem, the problem is Chiapas. These results hold when we extend our analysis to Mexico’s thirty-one federal entities, suggesting that place-specific determinants that have been overlooked in both the literature and policy, have a key role in the determination of income gaps.
R00|The contribution of the non-profit sector in narrowing spatial inequalities: Four cases of inter-institutional cooperation in Italy|In this chapter we illustrate how the public sector might fail in narrowing spatial inequalities, and how both underdeveloped markets and urgent territorial needs create in peripheral areas robust individual incentives to turn into non-profit activities or even household production. In all those situations, a well-developed non-profit sector can offer marginalized or excluded social groups a legal and ethical opportunity to obtain a decent income by offering rewards (monetary or non-monetary) in exchange for volunteering, allowing households to afford the cost of living. Laying on the results of the analysis, we discuss four cases of successful cooperation among SSE institutions by one side, and the private and the public sector on the other. In all those cases, the private and the public sector decided to facilitate the development of the non-profit sector by contracting out part of the production process to reduce costs and achieve a higher level of effectiveness. The result was successful because the non-profit sector did not incur in the opportunistic behaviors that might affect profit-oriented activities. Therefore, we suggest how local inter-institutional cooperation among the SSE, the private and the public sector should become the norm rather than the exception, in order to achieve at the same time a higher level of equitable and sustainable development and well-being.
R00|The Environmental Kuznets Curve in Small Geographies|Finding a theoretical explanation of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) has been difficult. Given that environmental quality improves as income and consumption increase, ceteris paribus, there must be an increase in remediation/abatement activity. In this paper, we provide theoretical conditions for an existence of a locality-based EKC when both output and abatement expenditures are increasing in income. We validate these predictions empirically using a detailed firm-level dataset in which environmental policies are uniform across locations. We also show that firms engaging in abatement activity tend to locate near polluting firms while income also plays a significant role in location choice.
R00|The exact solution of spatial logit response games|This paper proposes a logit response game with a spatial social structure and solves it exactly. We derive closed-form solutions for the strategy choice probabilities, the spatial correlation function of strategies of distant players, and the expected utility. We study how the probability of adopting a cooperative strategy in a prisoner’s dilemma game and the probability of adopting Pareto efficient strategies in a cooperation game are affected by changes in the parameter that expresses payoff-responsiveness.
R00|Aglomeración de sectores intensivos en conocimiento: una aproximación intra-urbana| Este trabajo analiza los procesos de aglomeración de sectores intensivos en conocimiento a efectos de determinar la intensidad y el alcance especial de las economías de aglomeración que explican la concentración de determinadas actividades en unas áreas muy concretas de las grandes ciudades. Para ello se utilizan datos de empresa procedentes del Registro Mercantil. A partir de esos datos se calculan dos funciones relativas basadas en la distancia (M y m) que permiten analizar tanto las dinámicas de aglomeración a nivel de sectores concretos como las de coaglomeración entre parejas de sectores. Nuestros resultados preliminares apuntan a unas especificidades sectoriales, en forma de pautas de aglomeración diferenciadas, y urbanas, dado que la base de datos contiene información de empresas localizadas en las áreas metropolitanas de Madrid y Barcelona. Palabras clave: economía urbana, funciones M, funciones m, aglomeración Códigos JEL: R00, R39
R00|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
R00|Domestic Policies as Strategic Measures in Multinational Markets|This paper studies the role of privatization and subsidization policies as trade strategies in a single multinational market where private and public firms of different nationalities interact. The paper finds that when a country subsidizes its industry the rival country would have the incentive to retaliate by adopting a subsidization regime to prevent a free riders¡¯ situation from happening when said country moves to liberalize the market. However, this step does not eliminate the free rider problem governmentsare face in a market when they privatize their public firms unilaterally.
R00|Socio-Economic, Demographic and Institutional Variables¡¯ Impact on the Development of Life Insurance in Sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar|This study empirically analyzes the Socio-economic, Demographic and Institutional Variables¡¯ Impact on the Development of Life Insurance in Sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar taking into account the Socio-economic and the Cultural structures of the set of countries. A mixed effect panel model is used to estimate the relationship between these variables and life insurance provisions, life insurance density and life insurance premium. covering the period 2000-2013, we found that financial development and urbanization are the only variables significantly related to all the variables of interest.
R00|Foreign Direct Investment and Economic Growth in the Arab Region: The Case of Knowledge Spillover Effects|This research aims to focus on how institutional barriers in the Arab region may account for losses in FDI inflows along with their potential technology spillover effects, as well as to show how the deficiency of absorptive capacities serve as an important factor for attracting inflows. The analysis relies on endogenous growth models at an aggregate regional level and a microeconomic firm-level. Findings based on linear OLS regressions, reveal a positive correlation between improved institutional factors and potential FDI spillovers, with significance varying in certain countries. Policy implications involve having targeted FDI policies to enhance absorptive capacities, improving information asymmetry to reduce corruption, and enhancing the labor market regulatory framework to improve human capital development as an incentive for FDI inflows.
R00|Harmonizing Teaching Tools with Cognitive Learning Outcomes in the Teaching of Economics|The selection of teaching tools is a key determinant of the extent to which the anticipated learning outcomes of a course will be realized. As such, choosing optimal teaching tools can be a greatly effective course of action to enhance learning in the classroom. As Terregrossa et al. (2009) point out, ¡°it is ironic that the practitioners of the discipline devoted to the study of efficiency principles [i.e. economics] are implicitly accused of being inefficient in their approach to teaching that discipline.¡± The purpose of the present paper is to first explain cognitive learning outcomes as well as review both traditional and modern teaching tools in the context of economics. Next, the appropriate teaching tools that match correspondingly with each specific cognitive learning outcome are proposed in the setting of teaching economics. To this end, the paper concentrates on Benjamin Bloom¡¯s (1956) taxonomy of cognitive domains to describe different cognitive learning levels. Then, a diverse set of teaching tools suitable to teach economics are corresponded to different cognitive learning outcomes. More specifically, the present paper aims to introduce different teaching tools - including course formats, major teaching methods, and teaching moves - corresponding to different levels of cognitive domain in the context of teaching economics. Finally, it is argued that economics instructors should select teaching tools as well as contents, readings, in-class activities, assignments, and assessment formats after formulating the learning outcomes of the course, so that the teaching tools selected can facilitate students¡¯ learning and help them achieve the anticipated learning outcomes more readily.
R00|Survey of Free Market Principles for Encouraging Market: Participation of African American and the Economically Challenged|This study targets to challenge African American and other economically challenged to embrace free market principles to enhance their participation in the economy of Albany/Dougherty County, Georgia. With a market-based questionnaire, this study assess the understanding of these principles from among the students of Albany State University, the major educational institution in the county. Among other compelling actions, the responses provided on the survey highlight the need for effective education, increasing interest in taking market risks, elevation of access to capital, and fairer and inclusive society.
R00|Macroeconomic and Financial Shocks in African Franc Zone: Exploring the Nexus with Vector Autoregression|This paper analyzes the impulse response functions due to macroeconomic and financial shocks in the African franc zone. To this end, we rely on the estimation of a vector autoregression (VAR) model for a sample of 14 African countries of the franc zone over the 1994-2014 times. Our results show that the evolution of the combined impulse response functions that a shock of the interest rate has a positive impact on snapshot itself, but negative on the other variables. A shock of the consumer price index has a positive impact on the instantaneous interest rate and the change in GDP per capita. But has a negative impact on the global balance as well as itself. A shock of the global balance has a negative higher instantaneous impact on itself but positive on the other variables. Although the variations observed following this shock on the other variables are quite low. A supply shock in the level of GDP per capita has a negative instantaneous impact on the global balance and itself, but positive on the other variables. Moreover, while this shock causes a slight increase in interest rates over the time, the stationary trend evolutions of the price index and decreasing of the global balance is observed. In terms of recommendations, it appears that the interest rate and the global balance are the two central variables that have captured the attention of the economic policymakers in these countries to improve country¡¯s performance on the pathway of progress.
R00|Rural Development in a Function of Local Economic Development: Case Study of Municipality of Krushevo|The local economic development is a process in which the local authorities and partners from the business sector and the non-governmental sector work together to improve the business climate. Through positive financial results conditions for economic growth are created and the employment opportunities are increased. Most of the municipalities in the Republic of Macedonia are still at an early stage of development of the idea of local economic development, due to fact that the preparation of the municipal strategies and action plans are the only activities carried out in this direction so far. The National Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development for the period 2009-2013 stresses tourism and agriculture as priority areas for development of the country and analyzes the situation and the range of responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Parallel, the national programs facilitating agriculture and rural development in Macedonia in favor of global trends for creation of sustainability in rural regions through the development of agriculture and additional activities for families living or returning to rural areas (villages). The rural development through the few authentic examples in Macedonia already shows the first interest although the contours of the branch are not defined yet. The rural development is able to a greater extent to meet the needs of the modern man that the urban environment is not able to satisfy. To clarify what can be these unmet needs and to answer the question of interest due to demand for this type of tourism, it is necessary to analyze contained rural tourism.
R00|An Appraisal of the Activities of Central Depository Bangladesh Limited (CDBL)|In Bangladesh the establishment of Central Depository Bangladesh Limited (CDBL) added value to the stock market and plays a vital role in the progress of economic development. CDBL is engaged in the operations of the Central Depository System (CDS), a major financial market infrastructure in Bangladesh established as a part of the overall financial sector development. This study tried to analyze the growth and development of CDBL. Seven trend equations have been tested for different activities of CDBL.It is observed that CDBL was able to achieve a stable growth of listed securities in CDS, depository participants, settlement of securities transactions, documentation of CDBL, total assets and net income during the period of 2007-2015. Square of correlation coefficient (r2) has also been tested for all trend equations. It indicates the prospect of CDBL in Bangladesh is relatively bright.
R00|The Extent of the Obligation for the Islamic Banks Working in Jordan in the Disclosure of the Social Responsibility Accounting in Their Financial Statements|This study aims at identifying the commitment of the Islamic banks working in Jordan to social responsibility as well as the indenturing of the accounting standards to the Islamic banks to disclose their social responsibility in their financial statements. The population of the study consisted of the managers and assistants of the Islamic banks¡¯ branches working in Jordan or their deputies as a random sample was chosen from said population. (35) Questionnaires were distributed from which (30) questionnaires were recollected rating at (86%) of the study sample. The most important results of the study were that the Islamic banks perform their social responsibilities towards the local community in which they work in addition to the fact that the Islamic accounting standards care for accounting disclosure for the social dimension in the financial statements of the Jordanian Islamic banks in a periodical and organized manner. The study presented several recommendations such as the necessity of embedding social information in the basic financial statements and revealing the amounts of Zakat and donations in separate items in the income statement, the granted goodwill loans statement and due Zakat amounts.
R00|New Criticism on the Competitiveness Concept: A Critical Review of the Concept at the Macroeconomic Level|Competitiveness of nations has always been a subject of controversy regarding its validity. It is a concept surrounded by paradox, and it is widely used despite its conceptual fragility and the lack of a definition consensus. Moreover, this omnipresent concept in economic analysis is not included in any economic theory in the strict sense. Up to now, there is no theory of national competitiveness. Despite the abundant publications about competitiveness, a critical review of competitiveness of nation has not yet appeared. This paper is proposed as a critical review of the concept of competitiveness at the nation¡¯s level, and it aims to examine the reasons that make this concept a point of controversy among economists. This paper summarizes the rejection of the competitiveness concept in three points: Firstly, competitiveness is a microeconomic concept which gets deteriorated when applied to a nation, because nations do not compete like companies. Secondly, competitiveness is gained reputation in the political world; it is used without attention to explain success or defeat of an economy in a simplistic way. Today, the concept of national competitiveness is part of a hegemonic discourse. Finally, neither a definition consensus, nor an empirical evidence or a theoretical foundations, the national competitiveness appears such an international ideology rather than an economic concept. This doctrine is more evident with economic patriotism and the globalization that raises the frenzy of competition (Krugman, 1999).
R00|The Determinants of Chinese Property Prices|In this paper, the determinants the housing prices boom in China are investigated. We extend the original model of Yuan and Xiao and Zhou (2006) by involving banks, in order to investigate the behavior of the money lender. A sample of 28 Chinese domestic commercial banks during the period between 2003 and 2009 are used for the empirical test. The results suggest that the mortgage loan has a significant impact on the property prices. Their effects on both condominium and residential prices are positive. However, the prices of High_Grade and Economical Houses have shown an entirely different response to the movement of mortgage credits.
R00|Random Walk in Emerging Asian Stock Markets|The random walk hypothesis is an important area of research in finance and many tools have been proposed to investigate the behaviour of the fluctuations in stock prices. However, a detail study on emerging Asian stock markets which employ the various unit root tests has not been done. In this paper, we employ six different unit root tests such as the Augmented Dickey and Fuller test (1979), Phillips and Perron test (1988), Kwiatkowski-Phillips-Schmidt-Shin test(1992), Dickey-Fuller GLS (ERS) test (1996), Elliot-Rothenberg-Stock Point-Optimal test (1996) and Ng and Perron (2001) unit root tests on 10 emerging Asian stock markets to detect for the presence of a random walk in stock prices. We have conducted the unit root tests during different sub-sample time periods of global financial crisis to check for robustness. To be specific, we have found that during the overall sample period (2001-2015) 8 out of 10 Asian stock markets and during the pre-crisis period (2001-2007) all the 10 Asian stock market prices do follow random walk according to the unit root tests under consideration. However, during the crisis & post-crisis period (2008-2015) we have found only 5 out of 10 Asian markets follow the random walk movement based on unit root tests.
R00|Bilateral Trades between Egypt and Malaysia: Issues and Opportunities for Further Development|Egypt and Malaysia are both belong to the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC), have similar historical background that both have been under the British colony and have enjoyed independence at almost within the same period. However, trades between the two countries are relatively small and if based on the socio-economic background the magnitude of trades between the two countries can be further improved. This paper traces the historical development of bilateral trade relationship between Egypt and Malaysia in order to understand the strength and weaknesses. The aim is to develop possible proposals for further enhancement of the relationship. The main objective of this paper is to investigate factors that may enhance integration and cooperation between Egypt and Malaysia. The research used qualitative analysis approach by looking at the trade sectors and volumes over the period of 2000-2012, based on the phenomenological case study method. It is found that Egypt and Malaysia enjoyed significant bilateral trade relations since independence of Malaysia in 1957, especially in the fields of culture and education. Because of the appreciation of the Malaysian citizens to the Islamic-based education such as Islamic studies, medicine and pharmacy particularly the world renowned institution of Al-Azhar University, thousands of Malaysians have enrolled and graduated from this university and other related institutions. On the other hand Malaysia is falling behind Argentina, Brazil and India in terms of export to Egypt. However recently, Malaysia has been becoming a popular for the Egyptian tourists. The paper explores a proposal for further improvement in terms of bilateral trades based on Islamic approach.
R00|Financial Development and Poverty in Developing Countries: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|The paper investigates how financial development affects poverty indicators in developing countries. We implement this analysis with a poverty model using data from 42 Sub-Saharan African countries and covering the period 1980-2012. We employ the System Generalized Method-of-Moment (GMM) that is appropriate to control country specific effects and the possible endogeneity. The empirical evidence shows that there indeed exists a financial development threshold below which financial development has detrimental effects on poor and above which financial development could be associated with less poverty. The evidence then points an inverted U curve type response and the findings are robust to changes in poverty measures and to alternative model specifications, suggesting thus the non-fragility of the linkage between financial development and poverty for sub-Saharan African countries. Our findings are then promising and support the view that the relation between financial development and poverty reduction is not linear for sub-Saharan African countries.
R00|Risk Aversion and Emotions in DoND|Contrary to the traditional economic school of thought, emotions known to have a huge effect on cognitive processes leading to decisions. In this context, it can be observed that some television shows provide a very appropriate test-bed for examining decision-making behavior under risk. This study attempts to estimate the degree of Arrow-Pratt RRA for a group of decision-makers composed of 101 ¡°Deal or No Deal¡± TV show contestants. For further analysis, a ¡°face-reading¡± software was employed in order to identify emotions experienced by contestants at various parts of the game, and the influence of such emotions on the risk aversion behavior. Our findings suggest that emotions have an influence on the decisions of the contestants.
R00|Antecedents of E-Banking Services by Customers for the Selected Commercial Banks in Sylhet, Bangladesh|This study is conducted to identify customers view regarding cost effectiveness, time savings and security of different types of e-banking products like online banking, ATM banking, internet banking, mobile banking and telephone banking. E-banking is the alternative delivery channels that banks adopted for providing efficient banking services through the help of internet, computers, mobile phone etc. Banks¡¯ customers were considered as population and primary data were collected through questionnaire. Descriptive statistics and Chi-square test were used for analyzing the data. The results indicated that customers prefer ATM banking services most, next to follow mobile banking and online banking. The customers believed that all types of e-banking products save time and except telephone banking others types of e-banking products were secured. Online banking and ATM banking services were not considered as cost effective. Analysis indicated no relationship between online banking and different demographic variables. ATM banking services was highly influenced by most of the demographic variables whereas internet banking, mobile banking and telephone banking influenced by few demographic variables i.e. age groups, education level, and monthly income. The results help banks to develop varieties of e-banking products and formulate strategies by considering the demographic characteristics of the customers. Customers expect more users friendly e-banking products along with diversify features and suggested to develop latest e-banking products like mobile apps based banking for ensuring long term customers relationship, attracting potential customers and keeping existing customers that may ensure consistent growth and profit as well.
R00|The Impact of Sustainability on the Financial Performance of Jordanian Islamic Banks|The study looked into the effect of the three dimensions of sustainability (economic dimension, environmental dimension, and social dimension) on the financial performance of Jordanian Islamic banks represented by (return on assets, return on equity, and earnings per share) during the period (2008-2014). The study sample contained two main Islamic banks in Jordan, namely: Jordan Islamic Bank and Arab Islamic Bank. Required data was collected from the annual reports, financial statements, sustainability reports, and social responsibility reports of the Jordanian Islamic banks from (2008-2014). Items for the dimensions of sustainability were determined, and their level of exercise was measured, by analyzing the content of these reports (content analysis), as well as the financial indicators of financial performance, which have been extracted from the financial statements of the surveyed banks. The study results have shown the presence of a statistically significant effect of the dimensions of sustainability on the financial performance measured by ROA and EPS in the Jordanian Islamic banks. However, there was no statistically significant effect of the dimensions of sustainability on the financial performance as measured by ROE in those banks. Finally, the study has encouraged Islamic banks to adopt a rational and prudent investment and financial policies, make proper operational decisions to generate revenue, maximize profits, and achieve shareholder objectives, issue sustainability reports to discover if goals and activities are compatible to the goals and interests of society and the environment, and increase their interest in sustainability.
R00|The Effects of Celebrity Endorsement on Customer¡¯s Attitude toward Brand and Purchase Intention|Celebrity endorsement has become a popular choice in advertising due to the its originality and the celebrity¡¯s attractiveness that make a big impact on brand awareness and customer behavior. This study analyzes the effect of celebrity endorsement on customer¡¯s attitude toward brand as well as the effect of customer¡¯s attitude toward brand on customer¡¯s purchase intention in Vietnam. A survey was conducted with 306 individuals in Vietnam. After conducting the explanatory factor analysis (EFA), and multi-variable regression analysis, results indicate that customer¡¯s attitude toward brand is positively affected by 03 factors: celebrity match-up congruence with the brand/product, celebrity trustworthiness, and celebrity expertise. Attitude toward brand also has a positive impact on customer¡¯s purchase intention.
R00|Improvement and Test of Stock Index Futures Trading Model Based on Bollinger Bands|Bollinger Bands trading model is an important strategy in program trading. But in practice, the trade model based on the traditional Bollinger Bands theory has great flaws such as ¡°over-sensitive¡± flaw, incomplete transaction stop-loss, and the adaptability of the model¡¯s basic parameters is poor. In this paper, the empirical research method is used to analyze the shortcomings of the traditional Bollinger Bands transaction model and put forward improved methods. Accordingly, we introduce the price speed, improve the stop-loss rules, and adjust the basic parameters to improve the model. The improved trading model is tested with the data of Shanghai and Shenzhen stock index futures. The result showed that the modified Bollinger Bands transaction model has strong profitability and low risk, which is instructive to the practice of stock index futures.
R00|The Effect of Trade Liberalization On Economic Growth: Selected MENA Countries|This paper investigates the combined effects of international trade on economic development deals and tariff rates. A sample of 12 countries (selected countries MENA) during the period of 2000-2013, and the dynamic panel data model have been used for this purpose. Our results show that the sensitivity of economic growth have significant and inverse relationship with tariff changes, though its relationship with trade volume is positive.
R00|Seasoned Equity Offerings as Technical Market Anomalies: Long-Term Temporal Trading Functionalities|The main goal of this paper is to approach the Seasoned Equity Offerings (SEO) trading opportunities as technical market anomalies and under the prism of a number of temporal (time-based) long-term trading functionalities (long-term TTF) introduced for the first time in corporate finance literature. The long-term is defined, for the purposes of this paper, as the 3-year time period, traded usually with daily, weekly and monthly time-frames. Trading is a temporal (i.e. time-based) historical living system with a number of functions, like: SEO, IPO, stock (instrument) price action Gaps, Breakouts, etc. In this domain, a number of warning long-term and short-term dynamics timing functionalities is available, like: candlestick patterns breaks, price action patterns pivotal-lines breaks, on open gup-ups (ooGUp), on open gup-downs (ooGDn), morning breakouts (mB), etc. All these time-based functionalities are regarded as 2nd level functions (i.e. functions of functions; because of the timing involved) with great trading opportunities, and they are defined ¨Cfor the first time in the corporate finance literature- by this paper as temporal (timing) trading functionalities. In particular, the SEOs with the embedded long-term TTF functionalities are great trading opportunities for the institutions, the individual (non-commercial) market investors, the swing traders, and the speculators. Data analysis shows that during the seasoned equity offerings time, shareowners significantly increase their share-holding, including offerings that would be classified as overpriced at that time; hence, the involved trading volatility is increased resulting in great trading and profit opportunities. This paper contributes to corporate finance literature by examining the SEOs functions and define and document their inherit TTF functionalities. For this purpose, four categories of share-holders are regarded: The long-term institution & non-commercial traders (investors), the swing momentary institution traders (institutions), the short-term non-commercial traders (speculators) and the intraday non-commercial traders (speculators). Paper concludes that, in SEO/long-term TTF trading, apart from the insiders, the swing traders (usually the smart-money and the institutions) are more benefited, at the expense of momentary short-term and intraday speculators, while the long-term investors are not affected by the SEO offerings.
R00|Effects of Macroeconomic Volatility on Stock Prices in Kenya: A Cointegration Evidence from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE)|This study examined the effects of macroeconomic volatility on stock prices via selected macro variables using the Johansen co-integration methodology. Time series data was obtained from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) and the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) for the period 1998-2015. Macro variables studied include inflation, money supply, exchange rates and interest rates against the NSE 20 share index. The study exploits the presence of unit roots of order 1(1) on the data set to apply the Johansen procedure and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) for data analysis. The study finds both a long-run equilibrium relationship between stock prices and the macroeconomic variables and between inflation and other macro variables. Specifically, and contrary to earlier evidence on the Kenyan market, the results suggest a negative long-run equilibrium relationship between money supply and stock prices. Inflation shows negative but insignificant relationship. Exchange rates and interest rates show a positive relationship. The short-term dynamics from the VECM support earlier documented evidence, implying the earlier evidence reflect short-run and not long-run dynamics. The study concludes that the effects of inflation seem to outweigh any possible gains from money supply on aggregate firm output in the long-run. Also, the study adduces evidence of possible spurious problems on earlier documented evidence from the reviewed studies that could be attributable to non stochastic processes in the models used. A robustness check using a multivariate approach points to this and confirms the co-integration results.
R00|The Use of the VEC Model to Study the Impact of the Third Party Payment on the Interest Market in China|This paper aims to study the effects of cross section of Internet finance and mobile payment on the Internet financial deepening and the interest rate liberalization. Because more than 50% of online payment is completed by way of mobile payments and financial products in Internet finance also have such two ways as online transactions and mobile client transactions, the interest rate index on behalf of the Internet finance can be largely replaced by the return of financial products in it. The study of the relationship between return of common monetary fund in transactional Internet finance and quasi benchmark fund¡ªSHIBOR helps to determine the effect of Internet mobile payment on Internet financial deepening and the interest rate liberalization. First, ensure the stability of time series data on SHIBOR, Yu¡¯E Bao returns, payment of the third party with ADF test and Johansen co-integration test and then build the VEC model and perform T test and AR stationary test, then make response analysis on impulse function to describe the impact of endogenous variables. Finally, make analysis and risk prevention suggestions according to empirical results based on the market situation.
R00|Impact of Electronic Banking Services on Bank Transactions|The objective of the research was to evaluate the significance of electronic system integrated in the banking sector for providing convenience services to their clients and the overall impact caused by electronic services on bank transaction. The research has applied analytical descriptive methodology to analyze the impact of electronic banking services on the bank transactions. The total sample size taken for the study was 150 and the questionnaires were distributed among the clients and bank officials to collect the data. The analysis revealed that electronic services have contributed to increase both the financial activity of the bank as well as number of its clients. In the banking sector, professional training can be given to banking officials, so that they can effectively work on the electronic system. The satisfaction has covertly impact a customer inclination towards electronic banking and electronic banking has positively influenced the banking transaction.
R00|Limits to Trade Growth: Decomposing Manufacturing Trade|This paper decomposes manufacturing import growth rates in 5 large industrial and 8 large developing countries and measures the relative contributions of domestic demand and market share changes for 1986/87, 1991/92, 1996/97, 2001/02, 2006/07 and 2011/12. Imports as a share of domestic value added has increased significantly over this period and account between 70 to 80 percent of import growth during this period. Exports from developing countries and especially China account for the bulk of this increase. China is an exception to this development and its import shares have not increased and have actually decreased during the last period. Finally future trade growth rates are going to decrease. We show that most of the early growth of trade was caused by trade liberalizations from almost closed economies and initial import shares were very low so that small changes led to high trade growth rates. Now that the market shares are already very high, it is almost impossible to replicate similar growth rates.
R00|Research on Quantitative Trading Strategy Based on Neural Network Algorithm and Fisher Linear Discriminant|Based on the trend background of financial development in China in recent years, and statistical analysis of trend line, this paper establishes the quantitative trading strategy through the BP Neural Network Algorithm and the Fisher Linear Discriminant. Firstly, the data is linearly regressed into equal-length trend lines and the slope is fuzzified to build the matrix of upward trend and downward trend. And then use BP Neural Network Algorithm and Fisher Linear Discriminant to carry on the price forecast respectively and take transaction behavior, and correspondingly we take Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 stock index futures as an example to carry on the back test. The result shows that, firstly, the initial price trend is well retained by fitting; secondly, the profitability and risk control ability of the trading system are improved through the training optimization of Neural Network and Fisher Linear Discriminant.
R00|Designing a Portfolio Based On Risk and Return of Various Asset Classes|Every investor¡¯s dream is to maximize return with minimum risk. Since this is practically impossible, the target is to optimize the risk and return. Different asset classes perform differently at different points of time. The performance is affected by the business as well as other local and global macroeconomic parameters. Crude oil, real estate, gold etc. have given very high returns previously but have turned unattractive in recent times. Equity market has over a long term returned handsome benefits but is highly volatile and hence fraught with risks. The risk free investments like fixed, on the other hand, fall in the low-risk low-return category. The purpose of this study is to analyze the returns of various asset classes and correlate these with their risk characteristics in order to verify whether there is always a positive relation between risk and return across all asset classes and to find out the portfolio mix of the various asset classes corresponding to the desired return and risk.
R00|Forecasting Volatility Stock Return: Evidence from the Nordic Stock Exchanges|The purpose of this study is to explore the volatility and secondary effects in the four Nordic stock exchanges of Norway: Oslo B?rs Linked all-share index AXLT Denmark: OMX Copenhagen 20, Sweden: OMX Stockholm 30 and Finland: OMX Helsinki 25. Keeping in mind that there is an ARCH effect in the returns of the four stock exchanges, we move on to the evaluation to the evaluation of models ARCH (q), GARCH (p, q) kai GARCH-M (p, q). Evaluating the parameters became possible through the use of the maximum likelihood method using the BHHH algorithm of (Berndt et al., 1974) and the three distributions (normal, t-Student, and the Generalized normal distribution GED). The results of this study indicate model ARMA(0,1)-GARCH-M(1,1) with t-student distribution as the appropriate one to describe the returns of the all Nordic stock exchanges except that of Sweden, where model ARMA(0,3)-GARCH-M(1,1) describes it best. Lastly, for forecasting the models ARMA(0,1)-GARCH-M(1,1) and ARMA(0,3)-GARCH-M(1,1) of the current stock exchanges we use both the dynamic and static process. The results of this study indicate that the static process forecasts better than the corresponding dynamic.
R00|The Operation Mechanism of Emission Right Trading and Analysis on the Operation Effect|The current environment pollution problem is becoming increasingly serious in the world, many solutions are being explored. Emission right trading as a means which can promote economic development and protect the ecological environment has attracted more and more attention of international society. With China¡¯s increasing emphasis on environmental governance problem, it is important to be familiar with emission right trading and the general operation mechanism. Referring to the successful operation experience of the developed countries such as the United States, undoubtedly has important effect on promoting China¡¯s relevant management departments and enterprises in energy-saving emission reduction work.
R00|Economic Growth and Total Factor Productivity in Lebanon|This study investigates empirically the determinants of economic growth and total factor productivity in Lebanon over the period 1980-2014. To do so, we firstly estimate the total factor productivity in a growth accounting framework. Secondly, an Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) modeling approach has been applied to examine the relationship between economic growth and some macroeconomic variables such as foreign direct investment, openness, claims on private sector, and official development assistance. Then we consider modeling the effects of these macroeconomic determinants on TFP through an ARDL model. Findings of the regression analysis suggest the presence of a statistically significant relationship between economic growth and the variables involved in this study except for claims on private sector which appears to be insignificant. The results of TFP model show a significant relationship with claims on private sector and openness on one hand and insignificant link with the direct foreign investment and official development assistance on the other hand.
R00|Main Worldwide Cultural Obstacles on Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)|In recent times, the history of a country¡¯s culture has become increasingly recognised as a crucial factor in its accounting methods. The globalization of the practice of economics has lead to homogenous international standards which are at the core of its development for practitioners, researchers and academics. This research considered some factors that might influence the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as cultural obstacles. This study investigates the religion, the language, technical skill and expertise as main cultural obstacles for the adoption of IFRS worldwide. Findings revealed the incompatibility of many IFRS with principles of Islamic religion, and also many non- English countries apply wrong implementation of IFRS because of translation issues of IFRS from English to their local languages. This study concluded that it is difficult to adopt IFRS in some countries and for some institutions because of the insufficient technical skill and experience of accountants and auditors to deal with those standards.
R00|The Bank Sector Performance and Macroeconomics Environment: Empirical Evidence in Togo|This article investigates short-run and long-run relationship between three main macroeconomic indicators (gross domestic product growth, real effective exchange rate, and inflation) and banking sector profitability (measured by return on assets and return on equity) in Togo, from 2006 to 2015, by using Pool Mean Group estimator. Results show that, in the short-run, banks¡¯ return on assets and return on equity are not related to macroeconomic variables. But banks¡¯ return on assets is determined positively by bank capital to assets ratio and bank size while banks¡¯ return on equity is affected negatively by bank capital to assets ratio. However, in the long-run, real gross domestic product growth and real effective exchange rate affect negatively and statistically significant banks¡¯ return on assets, while inflation rate has no effect. Concerning bank¡¯s return on equity, in the long-run, results suggest that real gross domestic product growth, real effective exchange rate, and inflation affect negatively bank¡¯s return on equity. These results imply that to stabilize bank profitability and make Togolese banking sector more resilient, policymakers and banking sector managers must, among others, try to improve real gross domestic product growth, real effective exchange rate, and inflation volatility anticipation.
R00|Research on New Energy and Traditional Energy Based on SPSS|In China, the main profit of the energy industry is traditional energy sources, the proportion of traditional energy companies take on a high number. However, China has been putting forward green economy, with strongly support of national policy, the new energy enterprises emerge in an endlessly stream, the businesses involved in new energy economy profit a lot and that everyone is better off, which leads to a relatively strong upward tendency for new energy stocks. Therefore, based on such a fierce competition in the energy industry, it is necessary to know if the relevance of the new energy stock and traditional energy stock is positive or negative. This thesis is based on a combination of correlation analysis and regression analysis, analyze the correlation of new energy stock and traditional energy stock, and the sub-sectors of new energy, do research on stock investment strategy through the analysis of convergence. We firstly use SPSS to carry out correlation analysis on stock price, quantitatively illustrate the relationship between the two kinds of stocks, and then calculate the correlation coefficient, determine its correlation strength, at last linear regression analysis by SPSS, and summarize a functional relationship for the stock.
R00|Evaluation of Pre and Post Demerger-Merger Performance: Using ABN AMRO Bank as an Example|This study attempts to measure the impact of simultaneously demerger and merger over the financial performance of ABN AMRO Bank for the period 2007-2013 by using the DuPont system of financial analysis. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is a Dutch state-owned bank with headquarters in Amsterdam. The bank demerged from Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) in the first quarter of 2010 and merged with Fortis Bank Nederland from July 1, 2010. Two statistical techniques are used in this study; first the analysis of pre and post Demerger-Merger financial ratios is drawn and second paired sample t-test is used. Based on the analysis of 3 years pre and post Demerger-Merger financial ratios and data of ABN AMRO Bank, the result shows that the event of merger-demerger has no significant influence on the bank¡¯s Net profit margin, Total asset turnover, Return on equity and Equity multiplier. This research fills the gap of Demerger-Merger analysis in the bank industry by using DuPont system of financial analysis.
R00|Devaluation as a Reason for Economical Growth or Crisis|In the article the concept of devaluation, its types, the aim of use of devaluation as a financial instrument, as well as the economic crisis, caused by a sharp drop in oil prices on the world market and devaluation of some national currencies have been discussed. In addition, the article also the effects of devaluation on the economy are examined, its negative and positive aspects, causes and results were analyzed. Some proposals are offered about what steps to take for the successful devaluation, what to do in case of a crisis on the example of some countries.
R00|Currency Substitution and Monetary Policy Effects: The Case of Latin American Countries|In this study, we empirically investigate how currency substitution transmits foreign monetary policy shocks to domestic countries and evaluate how the central bank respond to real exchange rate movements in three inflation-targeting Latin American countries under currency substitution, namely Chile, Mexico and Peru, between 2000 and 2011. Our model is based on a small open economy dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model that incorporates currency substitution and incomplete financial markets, and we estimate it by using Bayesian estimation techniques. Our empirical results are as follows. First, the degree of currency substitution is higher in Mexico, while it is negligible in Chile and Peru, which reflects the slight differences in the parameter values capturing the preference for the domestic currency among these countries. Second, the estimated coefficients of the real exchange rate gap in the monetary policy rule are high, meaning that the central banks in these countries actively respond to real exchange rate movements to diminish real exchange rate volatility. Third, domestic monetary policy influences the domestic economy through the real interest rate channel. On the contrary, foreign monetary policy has a significant effect in Mexico, while it is insignificant in Chile and Peru. This finding suggests the potential instability of currency substitution in that slight changes in the parameter values capturing the preference for the domestic currency alter the degree of insulation from foreign monetary policy shocks.
R00|Numerical Methods for Differential Games: Capital Structure in an R&D Duopoly|This paper compares two different numerical methods used to solve the same differential game. In differential games strategies of individual players are represented as continuous functions of time and are typically solutions to the optimal control problems of the players. The game is an R&D duopoly with two players: an upstream firm that is primarily engaged in research and development (the R&D firm) and whose value comes from the market valuation of these activities, and a downstream firm primarily engaged in distribution and marketing (the D&M firm). The first method is assumed to be the benchmark since it is based on discretizing the first order conditions of each player¡¯s optimal control problem. The second method is based on making random guesses of the parameters of a second order polynomial and searching for optimal solutions. The results suggest that the second method, which is more automated and has the potential of being applied to games with higher dimensionality, can give approximate solutions to differential games similar to the one considered here. The results also provide an important theoretical outcome. They illustrate that unlike the tradeoff and pecking order models of capital structure there are many markets in which capital structure is not driven by a reversion to a target debt-to-equity ratio or a pecking order, but by maximizing firm value under strategic considerations.
R00|Investigating the Effects of Migrant Remittances on the Economic Growth of Cameroon|Low and unsteady economic growth rates and strategies for fostering growth are major issues of concern for Cameroon. The paper attempted to investigate the effects of remittances on the economic growth of Cameroon. To achieve the objective for a clearer understanding of the dynamics of migrant remittances in relation to economic growth in Cameroon, the least squares method of multiples regression was exploited to analysze data collected from 1980 to 2013. The results revealed that migrant remittances to the tune of 1.5% positively but insignificantly explained economic growth in Cameroon.Further, consumption expenditure; government expenditure and exports were found to positively but significantly explain growth while investment expenditure was found to positively but insignificantly determine growth. Only imports alone stood to negatively and significantly influence economic growth in Cameroon.The value of R-squared Adjusted showed that 85% of variation in GDP was explained by variations in the independent variables specified in the model. Therefore, any policy measure aimed at improving upon the level of economic growth in Cameroon must give consideration to migrant remittances.
R00|Analysis on Efficiency and Its Influence Factors of Financial Support for Listed Companies of Guangdong New Energy Industry|The development of Guangdong new energy industry plays an important role in promoting the current process of economic restructuring in Guangdong province. As the core of modern economy, the financial system also has an important impact on the development of the new energy industry. This paper mainly employs DEA method to measure the efficiency of financial support of the new energy industry in Guangdong Province, and takes it as a core to establish an influence-factor model of financial support efficiency. Through empirical analysis, we can find the stability of Guangdong new energy industry insufficient; on the condition of indirect financing power shortage, the direct financing makes the flow of capital available, thus showing a more positive impact on the efficiency of financial support. According to the results, we should broaden the direct financing way of the new energy industry in Guangdong Province, reduce bank credit financing costs, promote diversified development of financial services, and improve the ability of the new energy industry against market risks.
R00|The Effect of Promotion Strategy in the Jordanian Islamic Banks on a Number of Customers|This study aimed at recognizing the effect of promotion strategy in the Jordanian Islamic banks on a number of customers. To accomplish the objective of this study, the researcher designed a questionnaire composed of three parts. The first part designed to collect data about the sample, while the second part was designed to collect information about the attitude to deal with Islamic banks. The questionnaire was distributed for a sample of 100 dealers with Islamic banks. The researcher recovered 95% of the distributed questionnaires. The collected questionnaires were entered to statistical software (SPSS) and analyzed. The results showed that the advertisement is the most important field in promotion that should be concerned by banks to increase its customers. The study concluded that the marketing strategy in Islamic banks is practiced randomly and not concentrated on that Muslims prefer the deal with Islamic banks.
R00|Effect of F Score on Stock Performance: Evidence from Indian Equity Market|This study seeks to examine whether value investing strategy based on F Score when applied to high book to market firms can significantly shift the current and future stock performance in favour of the investor in the Indian market. The study engages the panel data model to analyse the impact of high F Score on contemporaneous and future stock returns (Rt and Rt+1), return on equity (ROEt and ROEt+1) and market to book value (MTBVt and MTBVt+1) as stock performance measures. The study concludes that high book to market firms with high F Score can shift the distribution of contemporaneous and future stock performances in favour of investors in the Indian market. However such observation is most prominent and statistically significant at higher level when applied to future stock valuation measures than the future stock return as measures of stock performance. The outcome of the study would no doubt help the individual value investors, mutual fund managers and value investing strategists who have presence in the Indian market.
R00|The Overnight Return Temporal Market Anomaly|The main goal of this paper is to introduce an innovative market anomaly relating to ¡°time¡± during the overnight post-market session and therefore characterized as a temporal market anomaly. Anomalies in the markets appear from time to time and test the efficient market hypothesis. Many investors and traders believe that the markets follow the efficient market hypothesis. According to this theory the current price of a security (trading instrument) reflects all public and private information about that security (instrument). Changes in price are due to insider information, current news, or sudden events, which are impossible to predict. Hence, security¡¯s price action follows the path of a random walk, the hypothesis and argument of which states that current price is not dependent on past price and is normally or abnormally distributed over time. In financial and economical literature, many studies have presented approaches about what the academics call ¡°market anomalies¡± and according to literature the anomalies are classified in three categories: Fundamental, Technical, and Calendar-based anomalies. In this article another class of market anomalies is introduced, that simply could be referred to as ¡°temporal¡± because of the timing functionality involved. Finally, I will discuss one of these ¡°temporal¡± anomalies, called the overnight return temporal market anomaly. The presented research shows that momentum profit accumulates entirely overnight, while profit on all other strategies occurs entirely intraday. These findings strongly reject classical theories of intraday versus overnight returns.
R00|Exploring Corporate Bankruptcy in Belgian Private Firms|The main purpose of this paper is to identify the financial antecedents of corporate bankruptcy by employing a robust variable selection procedure. Based on a sample of 1,338 Belgian private firms, a backward stepwise logistic regression technique is employed. The findings indicate that the likelihood of corporate bankruptcy is higher at lower levels of solvency, liquidity and profitability. Furthermore, our results reveal that corporate bankruptcy is more likely in older and larger firms.
R00|Impact of the Implementation of E-Accounting in Mexico|In Mexico in 2015, a new fiscal requirement emerged called electronic accounting (e-Accounting), which consists of sending specified documents to the tax authority that form part of corporate accounting, this new requirement puts the country at the forefront of electronic accounting world-wide since the purpose is to increase tax revenue. The purpose of this study was to describe and analyze the adoption and implementation of electronic accounting by companies in Mexico and their contribution is to identify the factors that contribute to the success of the process. We applied a questionnaire to 94 companies selected at random, which correspond to individuals and corporations that had to comply with e-Accounting requirements in 2015 and 2016, where we analyzed some variables that were considered fundamental: training and specialization of the CEO, training of accounting staff, the state of computer use and technical conditions for being able to keep electronic accounting. We performed a regression analysis with 12 independent variables where the results show that the integration of balance sheet items is relevant for the process of adoption and implementation of electronic accounting (dependent variable).
R00|Dynamics of Canadian Trade Pattern: A Time-Series Analysis|This paper analyses the trends and directions of exports and imports of Canada using the time series data for the period 1981 to 2014. Instantaneous and compound growth rates are calculated by using the log-linear regression model in conjunction with an autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model for forecasting future exports and imports. The results of this study show that there is an increasing trend for both exports and imports. As far as the growth rates are concerned, the two estimated log-linear models depict a comprehensive annual picture of Canadian merchandise trade. The exports grow at an instantaneous rate of 4.46% and at a slightly higher than compound annual growth rate of 4.6%. The overall growth rate of imports is 5.41% and compound annual growth rate is 5.27%. The compound growth rate is marginally higher than the instantaneous growth rate. The results of the Johansen test for analyzing the long-run relationship between export, import and GDP have further demonstrated that the variables are co-integrated, and have established a long-run association among them.
R00|The Impacts of Non-Performing Loan on Profitability: An Empirical Study on Banking Sector of Dhaka Stock Exchange|The Banking sector of Bangladesh is trapped in a gridlock of non-performing loans (NPLs) so much so that NPL accounts for 11.60 percent of the total volume of classified loans. This problem has started to be widening with an evil trend of loan embezzlement among the industrial borrowers in our country. Frequent scam series in banking industry is surely a red light and unfortunately the commercial banks are highly surrounded by it. The goal of the study is to analyze the impact of non-performing loan (NPL) on profitability where in this study considered net interest margin (NIM). This paper attempts to find out the time series scenario of non-performing loans (NPLs), its growth, provisions and relation with banks profitability by using some ratios and a linear regression model of econometric technique. The empirical results represent that non-performing loan (NPL) as percentage of total loans on listed banks in Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) is very high and they holds more than 50 % of total non-performing loans (NPLs) of the listed 30 banks in Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) for year 2008 to 2013. Moreover it is one of the major factors of influencing banks profitability and it has statistically significant negative impact on net profit margin (NPM) of listed banks for the study periods.
R00|Empirical Investigation of Symmetric and Asymmetric Target Adjustment Models: Capital Structure of Non-Financial Firms in Jordan|The different capital structure theories propose the possible asymmetric behavior of capital structure. Thus, this paper empirically investigates whether non-financial Jordanian firms follow symmetrical or asymmetrical adjustment model. Then, an interaction model with the size and profitability (firm characteristics) investigated the impact of low/high profit and small/large size on the adjustment of leverage towards the target leverage ratio. This paper covered the period of 14 years (2002-2015) for a total of 110 companies listed on Amman Stock Exchange (75 industrial and 35 services). Results indicate that although Jordanian firms seek a target leverage ratio, their adjustment towards that target is Asymmetrical and high profitable and large companies tend to adjust faster than low profitable and small size companies.
R00|The Impact of Single and Multiple Mergers and Acquisitions on Shareholders¡¯ Wealth of UK Bidder Firms|This study investigates the impact of takeover announcements on UK acquirer shareholders¡¯ wealth during the period 2002-2006. More specifically, it is investigated whether the impact of single acquirers on shareholders¡¯ wealth is significantly different from the impact of multiple acquirers. Findings suggest that acquirer shareholders experience positive abnormal returns during the announcement period. Moreover, the results indicate single acquirers consistently outperform multiple acquirers when testing for deal characteristics such as: payment method (cash or equity), target status (public or private), target location (domestic or cross-border) and industry relatedness (specification or diversification). Performance declines with sequential acquisitions due to merger programme announcement hypothesis. Successful first time acquirers suffer from hubris whilst unsuccessful first time acquirers learn from their experiences suggested by the organisation learning hypothesis but go on to suffer from hubris. Acquisitions of private firms yield significant abnormal returns whereas public acquisitions reduce the value of UK acquirers. The effect of cash and equity, domestic and foreign, related and unrelated takeovers are inconclusive for the short-term windows investigated by this study.
R00|Educational Gender Gap, Economic Growth and Income Distribution: An Empirical Study of the Interrelationship in Cameroon|This study aimed at investigating the interrelationship existing between educational gender gap, economic growth and income distribution in Cameroon using time series data from 1970 to 2014 obtained from the World Bank Development indicators and University of Texas inequality project. For estimation, the three stage least square regression technique was employed to estimate the parameters of the system of equations. The econometrics results showed that, educational gender gap had a positive and significant effect on economic growth, while increase in income inequality deters growth in Cameroon. The results also revealed that the theil index of income inequality negatively and significantly affect the educational gender gap, while the proportion of female teachers in the labour force and trade openness had a positive influence on the educational gender gap. Based on the findings, it is recommended that policymakers should focus on socio-economic policies apt to reduce educational gender gap and income inequality and at promoting economic growth.
R00|Status effects of the German Excellence Initiative|Being granted a title enhances the status of the awardee while its loss has an opposite effect. The present article examines whether the latter effect dominates the former in the sense that elevation is less status-enhancing than relegation is status-damaging. Thereto, we use the three consecutive rounds of the German Excellence Initiative (a publicly funded program to promote outstanding research at German universities) as a natural experiment. We provide evidence that the loss of the title as a so-called ¡°elite university¡± had a negative effect on the number of first year students. In contrast, we find no evidence for a positive effect on the number of first year students when a university is granted the title. Placebo tests suggest that this effect is in fact due to the loss of the elite status and does not result from a decline in university quality.
R00|Causal Nexus between Billing Efficiency and Economic Growth in India: An Analysis Using Vector Autoregression|Energy being a major factor of production plays a pivotal role in inducing a sustained and high economic growth of an economy. This paper attempts to examine the Vector Autoregression (VAR) based Granger causality between billing efficiency and growth rate of per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of India using annual time series data for the period 1970-71 to 2014-15. The conventional Augmented Dicky-Fuller and Phillips-Perron tests reveal that both the series are non-stationary and individually integrated of order one. Johansen-Juselius cointegration approach finds no evidence on the long-run equilibrium association between these variables. However, the VAR - based Granger causality approach reveals unidirectional causality running from billing efficiency to economic growth without any feedback effect. As regards policy implication, implementation of both the short term and long term measures in improving billing efficiency, through the enhancement of commercial and operational efficiency in electricity distribution sector will undoubtedly aid in achieving sustained and high economic growth in India.
R00|Convergence and Divergence under Global Trade|We construct a model of endogenous technological change with trade (in the absence of foreign direct investment separating innovation from production) that displays multiple steady states with divergence in levels and in growth rates. This shows trade can be a force for both development and underdevelopment. Our dynamic model of trade simultaneously explains: comparative advantage, the advantages of being open for the technological leader, that lagging countries might benefit from being closed, the possibility of divergence under trade for lagging countries, and under what circumstances lagging countries can converge to development under trade, possibly overtaking the leader. The sources of divergence we consider are inherent characteristics of the process of technological change (for example as described throughout Aghion and Howitt¡¯s work). The first is the need for absorptive capacity for innovators taking advantage of leading edge technologies. The second is the existence of innovation externalities between goods, the basis of technology spillovers and of the concept of ¡°leading edge technology.¡± It follows that the more goods are engaged in R&D in any country, the more productive R&D is. We provide a historical discussion of the emergence of development and underdevelopment during the 19th Century and until 1914 that is consistent with and exemplifies the possibilities explained by the model.
R00|Determining Agency Theory Framework through Financial Leverage & Insider Ownership|Sound practices of corporate governance help firms to lift their performance and bring in investors¡¯ confidence while enabling shareholders¡¯ rights protection, qualifying the legal requirements and spotlight the vast public image about how they are operating their business. Most of the previous literature on agency theory in Pakistan has demonstrated connection among ownership structure on firm performance, value and profitability. This study extends the literature by proposing the effect of change in leverage & insider equity ownership on agency cost mitigation. Proxy is used to measure agency cost: Expense ratio: Operating expense / annual sales. We applied ¡°Fixed effect¡± method on sample of 41 non-financial firms from four economic groups listed in Pakistan Stock Exchange from the period of 2010-2014. The practical implications of the study is that those investors who desire long term performance of the firm may perhaps invested in those firms which are owned by insiders or containing acceptable amount of debt, for the reason that such firms try to maintain & continue long term performance by agency cost minimization & shareholders¡¯ interests protections.
R00|Urbanization and Economic Growth in China¡ªAn Empirical Research Based on VAR Model|This paper takes the relation between urbanization and economic growth in China as the object of study. By using the time series data ranging from 1982 to 2014 and building VAR model, it analyzes, respectively, the dynamic relations between economic growth and the urbanization rate of resident population, the urbanization rate of land and the quality of urbanization. The paper comes up with the following conclusions: there exists a unidirectional causality between resident population urbanization and China¡¯s economic growth, the former promoting the long-term growth of the latter; unidirectional causality also exists between land urbanization rate and China¡¯s economic growth. However, different from resident population urbanization rate, it is the economic growth of China that promotes the increase of land urbanization rate and the increase of land urbanization rate cannot promote China¡¯s economic growth; the relation between the quality of urbanization and China¡¯s economic growth is a two-way causality. The improvement of urbanization quality has a cumulative positive effect on the economic growth of China, while economic growth has a negative effect on the improvement of urbanization quality in the short term and positive effect on economic growth in the long term.
R00|The Classical Approaches to Testing the Unconditional CAPM: UK Evidence|This empirical study attempts to test the unconditional capital asset pricing model. Two-pass regression models are employed using 86 randomly chosen companies of LSE during 1997 to 2015. A two stage approaches have been applied to investigate whether excess returns can be explained by the market risk. Based on empirical results of the first pass regression, among the 86 companies 81 companies are consistent with the prediction of CAPM except five companies. However, the estimated R-square of the sample companies are very low and indicate that market excess return has low explanatory power. In the second pass regression, empirical result shows that beta coefficient is negative and statistically significant which implies that rate of return has no linear positive relationship with beta. Further, coefficient of residual variance is also observed negative and statistically significant which violates the CAPM assumption as unsystematic risks are assumed to have no impact on rate of return. In conclusion, CAPM predictions are not consistent with the findings of this study; hence CAPM is violated and does not hold.
R00|Equity Market Response to Form 20-F Disclosures for ADR Firms|Non-U.S. companies may list securities in U.S. stock exchanges, provided that they file a set of audited financial statements as well as comply with extensive SEC disclosure requirements. We speculate that non-U.S. firms who choose to be listed in the major U.S. exchanges will comply with the supplemental disclosure requirements in order to have the supplemental disclosures impounded in the home country equity share price via the ADR share price in the manner described by Fishman and Hagerty (1989). We investigate the information content of non-U.S. firm¡¯s earnings released vis-¨¤-vis the SEC Form 20-F filings in both ADR and home country equity share markets. We employed models of the ADR and equity security share earnings release date abnormal returns controlling for the incremental firm-specific SEC Form 20-F disclosures required of exchange listed ADRs. Our results suggest that both ADR and home country equity share markets exhibit abnormal returns associated with the earnings release date. Particularly noteworthy, however, is the association between magnitudes of U.S. GAAP earnings and magnitudes of SEC Form 20-F filing date. Abnormal returns are significantly larger than the association between magnitudes of reported earnings and earnings report date abnormal returns in both the ADR and home country equity share markets. Our results seemingly suggest that the U.S. ADR share market¡¯s response dominates the cross-market information flow, driving the home country equity share market response in a manner consistent with the notion that U.S. GAAP conveys price relevant information beyond reported earnings for non-U.S. firms.
R00|Liquidity Risk and Financial Performance of Commercial Banks in Kenya|The focus of this study was to examine the effect of liquidity risk on financial performance of commercial banks in Kenya. The period of interest was between year 2005 and 2014 for all the 43 registered commercial banks in Kenya. Liquidity risk was measured by liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and net stable funding ratio (NSFR) while financial performance by return on equity (ROE). Data was collected from commercial banks¡¯ financial statements filed with the Central Bank of Kenya. Panel data techniques of random effects estimation and generalized method of moments (GMM) were used to purge time-invariant unobserved firm specific effects and to mitigate potential endogeneity problems. Pairwise correlations between the variables were carried out. Wald and F- tests were used to determine the significance of the regression while the coefficient of determination, within and between, was used to determine how much variation in dependent variable is explained by independent variables. Findings indicate that NSFR is negatively associated with bank profitability both in long run and short run while LCR does not significantly influence the financial performance of commercial banks in Kenya both in long run and short run. However, the overall effect was that liquidity risk has a negative effect on financial performance. It is therefore advisable for a bank¡¯s management to pay the required attention to the liquidity management.
R00|Do Real Depreciations Reduce the Income Gap between the Rich and the Poor?|This study concentrates on the effect of real depreciations of a currency on one key aspect of economic development, the distribution of income. Based upon the recent availability of a real depreciation index and two databases on Gini coefficients, we investigate how real depreciations affect levels and changes in the distribution of income. The panel evidence of more than 158 countries indicates that real depreciations are associated with a decline in levels of income gap between the rich and the poor. They, however, have no statistically significant association with changes in the distribution of income. Therefore, the relationship between real depreciations and levels of the distribution of income is likely to stem from reverse causality. Our main findings may help policymakers who attempt to use a currency depreciation policy fully realize that the policy at least does not hurt the poor.
R00|It goes without saying that Africa needs a significant quantum of resources to address its development challenges. The World Bank estimates Africa¡¯s infrastructure needs at USD 93 billion per annum and we estimate the social sector development needs at USD 109 billion per annum. We also find that the major sources of development finance in Africa are exhibiting either a declining or a constant trend. This, therefore, calls for significant increases in the fiscal space in which non-traditional sources of development finance can be game changers. This study discusses five sources of financing that are currently used by a relatively small number of African countries in spite of their potential to increase their fiscal space. Diaspora bonds, carbon sequestration and trading, renewable energy and Islamic finance, as sources of development finance are not traditional to many African countries. Tourism is traditional to all African countries, but is not optimally leveraged as in other parts of the world. We argue that African countries are not looking at the full range of options that could be available to them to increase the development finance space. We therefore argue that African policy makers should embark on revenue diversification to include non-traditional sources that could be game changers in their development finance mix|No abstract is available for this item.
R00|Real Exchange Rate Misalignment in Jordan: The Permanent Equilibrium Approach|This study attempts to measure the real exchange rate misalignment in Jordan from 1980 to 2014. We examine the role of adopting the pegged exchange rate system to the US in 1995 in limiting/increasing misalignment. Applying the Johansen approach, a cointegrating relationship is found between the real exchange rate and a number of economic fundamentals that influence the long-run real exchange rate. Over a long examined period of exchange rate fixity, the real exchange rate is kept depreciated except after 2006-2008 over which the appreciation of the real exchange rate is noted. However, after 2011 misalignment receded as the real exchange rate matched the equilibrium real exchange rate. An attempt is also made to model the nexus between the growth of per capita income and misalignment. The exchange rate misalignment is found to significantly decrease the economic growth.
R00|Helicopter Money: The New Form of Monetary Easing in the Eurozone?|Although unconventional measures by the ECB have been very extensive so as to fortify the Eurozone¡¯s financial system the question of whether more drastic measures are necessary, is at the forefront of newly aroused academic debate. This paper¡¯s main effort is to conceptualize helicopter drops in the Eurozone before hindsight in order to shed some light on how feasible are more drastic measures for the Eurozone and how they could further attenuate moral hazard problems. An early understanding of overt money financing will help in better driving monetary policy and emphasize whether the benefits of more and free money printing could bring about a heal for the wreckages of the EU membership status.
R00|Time Series Analysis of the US Term Structure of Interest Rates Using a Bayesian Markov Switching Cointegration Model|This paper examines the US term structure of interest rates using a Bayesian Markov switching cointegration model that allows the cointegrating vectors, the number of cointegrating rank, the risk premium, and other parameters to change when regime shifts. We find that for any pair of the interest rates there is a strong support for the cointegrating implication of the expectation hypothesis at least in a stable regime, while for some pairs of the interest rates the cointegration does not occur in a high volatility regime. We find that a Markov switching cointegration model captures regime shifts that are corresponding to high inflation regime. In high inflation regime, variance is much higher for both the long and short rates and adjustment toward equilibrium is much faster than those in the other regime.
R00|The Impact of Imports and Exports on the Size and Composition of Government Expenditures|This paper examines the casual relationship between greater exposure to international trade and the size and composition of government expenditures, productive versus unproductive. To capture differential impacts on how government responds to greater international exposure three measures are used: the ratio of exports plus imports to GDP (openness), the ratio of exports to GDP, and the ratio imports to GDP. For all countries in aggregate, we find no causal relationship between openness and total government expenditures or productive and unproductive expenditures. For low-income countries however, there is a positive causal relationship between openness and productive government expenditures. Further, there is a positive causal relationship between the import ratio and productive expenditures for all countries as well as for low- and high-income countries separately. Exports, conversely, have no causal relationship with any measure of government expenditures. Our findings suggest that governments in economies with greater imports as a share of GDP increase productive expenditure to counteract the negative consequences from more exposure to foreign competition.
R00|An Investigation into the Interest Elasticity of Demand for Money in Developing Countries: A Panel Data Approach|The issue as to whether the interest rate influences the demand for money in developing countries is still controversial. The aim of this study is to attempt to resolve this controversy. The study uses panel data from eight African countries to look at the interest elasticity of demand for money in developing countries. The countries used in the study are Angola (ANG), Equatorial Guinea (EQG), Gambia (GMB), Guinea-Bissau (GBS), Kenya (KNY), Mali (MLI), Nigeria (NGR) and Uganda (UGD). Overall, the study finds the interest rate to be inelastic in the short run but elastic in the long run. This finding suggests that monetary policy is ineffective in developing countries in the long run.
R00|Estimating the Output Gap for Saudi Arabia|The objective of this paper is to estimate annual potential output growth and the output gap for the Saudi economy over the period 1980 to 2015, looking at both total output and non-oil output. The focus on the latter is so that the progress in diversifying the economy might be examined and the possible impact of diversification on potential output might be measured. We use three methods for estimating potential output proposed in the macroeconomic literature. The methodologies include the Hodrick-Prescott filter, Kalman filter, and the production function approach. We compare the three over the entire sample and the last five years. Our findings suggest that the output gap (the difference between actual and potential output, as measured by real GDP) is positive on average over the entire period (i.e., actual output has on average exceeded potential); however, the gap has turned negative and has shrunk in recent years, as fiscal expenditures, particularly in infrastructure, have acted to better align actual and potential. Our analysis also indicated that growth in both potential GDP and total factor productivity have accelerated in the 2011-2015 period. In contrast, growth in these factors has slowed in many other countries, particularly the advanced economies. This better performance of the Saudi economy is possibly due to the development of a resilient financial sector in the Saudi economy.
R00|The Impact of Technical Analysis on Stock Returns in an Emerging Capital Markets (ECM¡¯s) Country: Theoretical and Empirical Study|Technical analysis, even if deliberated by some as purely conjecture, is still generally acknowledged as additional information to main brokerage companies. There are existent two reasons for the achievement of technical analysis and why its success is still debated: (1) stock return predictability stems from efficient markets that can be analysed by time-varying equilibrium returns, and (2) stock return predictability forms from prices wandering apart from their fundamental valuations. Fundamentally, both explanations show some kind of overall market inefficiency where investors are capable of exploiting. Therefore, technical analysis derived its importance from its ability to train investors to take investment decision based on historical trends of securities prices. To help find answers to the issues raised and to structure the study, the following general research question is set: is it possible for technical analysis to achieve abnormal returns in an Emerging Capital Markets (ECM¡¯s) country, more specifically, the Egyptian Stock Exchange? If yes, hence it could be possibly used to help individual investors to take effective investment decision. By means of theoretical and empirical investigation, this study provides significant evidences that technical analysis achieved abnormal returns in inefficiency periods. This study suggests that simple trading rules, more specifically; the simple moving average beat the standard buy-and-hold strategy for the Egyptian stock exchange.
R00|Social Cues-Customer Behavior Relationship: The Mediating Role of Emotions and Cognition|This paper investigates the effect of social cues in a mall¡¯s shopping environment on customer behavior. Two competing mediation scenarios are assessed: emotion-cognition and cognition-emotion in a stimulus-organism-response (SOR)-based framework. Although the role of social cues in driving customer behavior in shopping contexts is largely addressed in the extant literature, the mechanism of the effect is still under-researched area and this study is an attempt to fill this gap. The conceptual model is validated through a questionnaire survey of 1028 shopping mall customers from three cities in Jordan. Two different conceptual models are tested. The analysis reveals that the cognition-emotion mediated model is more robust in predicting the effect of social cues than emotion-cognition mediated model. The findings indicate that a) social cues have a significant positive effect on customers¡¯ emotion of pleasure; cognition; and behavioral response; and b) only pleasure and cognition mediate the effect of social cues on customers¡¯ behavioral response. Theoretically, this study provides a comprehensive understanding of the mechanism by which customers¡¯ emotions and cognition mediate the effect of social cues on customer behavior; and practically, it asserts the significance of social cues as a marketing tool.
R00|The Impact of Foreign Investor Trading Activity on Vietnamese Stock Market|The empirical research examines the impact of net purchase of foreign investors on performance of stock market and market liquidity. In this study, market performance is proxied by VN-index, which measures growth of equity market and market liquidity is estimated by the trading volume of whole market. The data is collected in Vietnamese Stock Exchange in the period of 1215 intraday from 2011 to 2014. By using ARCH model, main findings of this research are: first, there is positive relationship between market performance and net purchase; second, performance of stock market is influence by lag factor and third, liquidity of market is affected negatively by trading activity of foreign investors.
R00|Predictors of Complain Behaviour among Mobile Telecommunication Network Consumers|This research paper sought to empirically determine the predictors of consumer complain behaviour. High prevalence of anomalies with mobile telecommunication network services without a lasting solution emphasized the significance of the present study. Hawkins, Best, & Coney (2004) consumer complain behavioural framework was used as the study¡¯s theoretical background. It was a quantitative study which employed a cross-sectional survey. A total of 385 respondents within Festac town in Nigeria were selected stratifiedly for the study. Descriptive analysis showed that 64.9% of the respondents are passive while 35.1% are active complainers. Regression analyses revealed that six demographic variables explained 4.9% variance on complain behaviour while dissatisfaction explained additional 10% variance on complain behaviour. It further indicated that three control measures were significant, with dissatisfaction (¦Â=-.33, p
R00|The Impact of Stakeholders on Health Services Development: An Empirical Investigation on the Surgical Department at King Fahd General Hospital, Saudi Arabia|The current research investigates the stakeholders influencing health services development at King Fahd General Hospital KFGH in Jeddah city, Saudi Arabia. This study proposes and tests a six factors model that influences health services development. These factors include government regulations, competitors, suppliers, patients, public, and health service providers as independent variables; the dependent variable is health services development. In order to explore this issue, a quantitative method was used to collect primary data through a questionnaire, which was administered in KFGH in Jeddah city in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The researches targeted 141 surgeons in this research as a sample because of the small population. A purposive sample was used to choose the participants in this research. The research retrieves 130 valid questionnaires; representing 92%.The results confirm significant differences in the influence of these factors on health service development. The research concludes that there is a significant influence of governmental regulations, competitors, suppliers, patients, public, and health service providers on health services development. The research recommends enhancing the awareness of stakeholder factors by studying the effects of governmental regulations, competitors, suppliers, patients, public, and health service providers. The last is adopting and updating medical and non-medical technology to maintain health service development.
R00|The Influence of the Store Internal Dimensions on the Customer Loyalty: A Comparative Study between Sameh Mall and Khalid Mall|Customer loyalty is among the factors that increase the competitive advantage of stores and raise its market share among the other stores. Nowadays, the issue of loyalty and customer loyalty is becoming a trend among all stores even the small stores and supermarkets that are found in the local provinces (Rajic & Dado, 2013). The current study aims at understanding the influence of the internal dimensions of the store on the customer loyalty between Sameh mall and Khalid mall. The variables which were taken into perspective were (product quality, product range, employees, physical evidence, and prices). The sample of the study contained customers who attended both stores; 350 individuals were selected to fulfill the questionnaire and 340 questionnaires were retrieved. The results of the study showed that the price was the most influential factor that influences the loyalty of the customer for the benefit of Sameh Mall.
R00|NGOs¡¯ Advertising in South Africa and Implications for NGOs in China|In this paper, we discuss NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations) and NPOs (Non-Profit Organizations) in general and focus on the advertising strategy NGOs should undertake. More specifically, we compare and contrast the NGO history in South Africa and China, its corresponding past advertising, and implications for advertising strategy for Chinese NGOs going forward. This includes a discussion of a key issue of the efficacy of advertising that evokes emotion, and how it can be a ¡°mixed-blessing.¡± It is suggested that the advertising strategy of South African NGOs can usefully inform NGOs in China.
R00|Impact of Immigration on Native and Ethnic Consumer Identity via Body Image|This research focuses on consumer identity of two under-researched but growing immigrant communities in Australia via the lens of the body image construct. Consistent with an emerging stream of research, body image is viewed as a part of identity. Given the variety of goods and services that have an impact on consumers¡¯ perceptions of their body, and because consumers use products to create and convey desired identities, body image is also viewed as a part of consumer identity. Considering literature on identity, body image, and acculturation, exploratory research was undertaken to determine the impact of immigration on the identities of both immigrants and natives. Specifically, focus groups were conducted on two generations of Filipino- and Indian-Australian women as well as Anglo-Australian women. It was found that second generation immigrants have dual consumer identities where they balance the values, attitudes and lifestyles of both their home (i.e., native or heritage) and host cultures whereas first generation immigrants tend to retain their native consumer identity even if they appear to adopt values, attitudes, and lifestyles of the host culture. The impact of immigrants on consumer identities of native residents who are typically in the majority (i.e., the Anglo group) was not evident. Theoretical and practical implications including recommendations for marketing practitioners are then discussed followed by suggestions for future research.
R00|Critical Atmospheric Cues in Designing Online Stores: The Case of Amazon.com|Online store environments have changed due to advancements in broadband speed and web development technologies. Despite the widespread real-time interactive features in online stores, social cues have been overlooked in a great number of taxonomies of online store atmospheric cues. To fill the gap, this study considers social cues with other atmospheric cues (i.e., visual, information, and navigation) in the taxonomy, and examines critical atmospheric cues that can generate a pleasure emotional response. The study also investigates whether the pleasure emotional response can lead to the approach behavior of consumers. Amazon.com, the U.S. top online pure player, is used as the specific research setting, and the results demonstrate that all atmospheric cues except visual cues can generate the pleasure emotional response. The pleasure emotional response turned out to be a significant predictor of the approach behavior.
R00|Exploring the Effect of Consumers¡¯ Food-Related Decision Making Styles on National Brand vs. Store Brand Choice|It is important for marketers to understand individuals¡¯ buying decisions in a competitive environment. The concept of decision making style is one of the key determinants of consumers¡¯ behavioral patterns. This study aims to explore the effects of consumers¡¯ decision making styles on buying national and store brand food products. To examine consumer decision making styles, Sproles & Kendall¡¯s (1986) The Consumer Style Inventory (CSI) is adopted for the study. The framework of the study is based on eight consumer decision making styles, expected to shape consumers¡¯ national and store brand choices on food products. The empirical analysis is based on data obtained from consumers living in K?r?ehir, a city in Turkey. Questionnaires are handed over to customers of retail stores both selling national and their own brands. The sample consists of 400 customers. The data is gathered by using convenience sampling and face-to-face survey methods. Multiple regression analysis is used to test some hypotheses of the research and to compare consumers¡¯ national and store brand choices in the context of their decision-making styles. Besides, independent samples t-test and one way ANOVA are also used to see whether national and store brand choices significantly differs in demographic characteristics. The results of the study reveal that lower price seeking, habituation/brand loyalty, recreation consciousness and impulsiveness/carelessness have significant effects on the choice of store brand food product, whereas novelty/fashion consciousness, confused by over choice and value seeking have statistically significant effects on consumers¡¯ choices of national brand food products. Lower price seeking is found to have the strongest effect on consumers¡¯ store brand choices, whereas novelty fashion consciousness has the strongest effect on national brand food product choice. Besides, both store and national brand food product choices differ according to gender and income level.
R00|E-Marketing via Social Networking and Its Role on the Enhancement of Small Business Projects|This study aimed to highlight the concepts of e-marketing through social networking sites and its role in the enhancement of small business projects; and the extent to which it is effective for proprietors of such projects. Questionnaire technique was used for collecting data from large number of individuals. Analysis of data was performed by using the analytic and descriptive approaches. The population was comprised of some directors of the small business projects in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The study evaluated that there is a general recognition for the significance of using social networking sites in marketing. To advertise the products and services of the small business projects in consideration with social media sites as a modern method for e-marketing together with its widespread application, it is essential to utilize the need for taking advantage from the revolution of social networking sites in marketing sector. Doing so will give attention to creative activities related to the sorts of such small projects, and attempt to know continuously the latest electronic applications. The retrieved outcomes of the study demonstrate that how e-marketing and social networking sites support small business projects and identify the major obstacles faced by the proprietors in Saudi Arabia.
R00|The Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities on Consumers Purchase Intention in China: Mediating Role of Consumer Support for Responsible Business|Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has demonstrated the positive influence on consumer attitudes and buying behaviors. However the questions worth investigating are ¡°how different CSR types influence consumer purchase intention?¡± Also, how does firm¡¯s overall CSR lead to consumer purchase intention? The purpose of this investigation is to examine the intervening mechanism between CSR and consumer purchase intention. We expect consumer support for responsible business (CSRB) mediates the relationship between CSR and consumer purchase intention. We tested the hypotheses with data from dyad sample of 200 firms¡¯ representatives and consumers from apparel industry in China. The result supported the hypothesized relationships between CSR, CSRB, and consumer purchase intention. Findings of this study contribute to the CSR and consumer attitude research. This study also discusses the theoretical and practical implications of the findings.
R00|Use and Appropriation of Virtual Social Networks: Mexico and Spain, a Cross-Cultural Study|Virtual social networks (VSN) represent a phenomenon that continues reconfiguring the social dynamics. They have gone from the embryonic stage to a stage of maturity where it is observed that the context uses and appropriates those considered useful, giving them the use that seems to fit. Thus, Mexico and Spain contexts have specific characteristics and conditions. The aim of this study is to describe the access and appropriations of VSN, both in Mexico and in Spain and to show the challenges they face. The structure of this research is primarily an introduction to explain social networks as a current media phenomenon to later compare how each context has accessed, used and fitted these social networks into their own contexts. Finally, it will be discussed how Spain and Mexico face their challenges and last how each country treat the social media either as a threat or as an opportunity.
R00|Investigating the Effect of Selected Marketing Efforts in Brand Equity Creation and Its Cross-Cultural Invariance in Emerging Markets|In the field of brand management, numerous studies have been conducted on brand equity conceptualization, measurement and validation. Also, previous researchers have shown that consumer-based brand equity via its dimensions can be created and maintained through a company¡¯s marketing mix activities. Brand equity according to Keller, is the differential effect of brand knowledge on consumer response to the marketing activities performed on the brand. Due to cultural differences, consumers¡¯ reaction will differ and thus these marketing efforts will have varying results in different markets. Drawn from both Aaker¡¯s & Keller¡¯s conceptualizations of brand equity, the current study develops a brand equity creation process model similar to Yoo et al.¡¯s and examines its cross-cultural invariance through a structural invariance test using data from two important growing markets¡ªGhana and China. Results prove that some marketing efforts and dimensions of brand equity have invariant effects on brand equity across the Ghana and Chinese samples. Specifically, the effect of price on perceived quality was not equivalent in both markets. Relationship among brand equity dimensions were also not equivalent, however these dimensions all show an equivalent, positive effect on brand equity. Managerial implications for international brands and limitations for future research are discussed.
R00|Bridging the Gap: Development of the Entrepreneurial Philanthropy Alignment Model|Partnerships are increasingly considered to have the potential to address societal problems that one single actor cannot solve. This paper rationalises the development of partnerships between entrepreneurs and non-profit organisations by the effects of its alignment. In organisations, the process of alignment focuses on the activities that management perform to achieve cohesive goals (e.g., finance, marketing, sales, human resources). Whereas in an entrepreneurial philanthropy partnership, the stage of alignment maturity addresses both how the opted societal change is in harmony with the entrepreneurial approach and how this approach can be in harmony with societal change. This approach is deemed crucial in understanding how the two partners can translate their views on leadership, strategy, and culture into opportunities that enhance their impact. Theoretical researches have provided foundations for identifying dimensions of the conceptual Entrepreneurial Philanthropy Alignment Model (EPAM) that might strengthen the impact of a partnership between an entrepreneur and a non-profit organisation.
R00|Online Marketing for Media: The Case of Greek News Websites|Nowadays it is quite easy to create a news website and start promoting it online. However, the structure of a significant amount of news websites seems to have been changing, often deviating from trends of past years or even setting their own marketing direction. Based on seven hypotheses related with online marketing characteristics, the researchers gathered data from articles posted on Greek news websites that reported three major events. After visiting the websites for a second time in order to compare the data, they calculated our results. These results show a clearer picture of how the situation currently is for the top twenty Greek news websites according to ¦¡lexa.com. This paper also highlights newer trends in online news reporting, such as the elimination of the ¡°like¡± button in favour of the shares, and also makes suggestions for further research.
R00|Investigating the Impact of Communication Satisfaction on Organizational Commitment: A Practical Approach to Increase Employees¡¯ Loyalty|Recently, employees are seen as important assets of organizations in which the majority of them cannot deal with employees properly or even underestimate their importance. One of the essential issues is increasing employees¡¯ organizational commitment, which in turn minimizes customers¡¯ switching behaviour and the way organizations usually communicate appropriately their internal market strategy. In order to have a better vision about such issue, this study is planned to investigate the impact of communicational satisfaction on organizational commitment. A variety of communicational satisfaction dimensions are taken into analysis; such dimensions include: communication climate, relationship to superiors, organizational integration, media quality, horizontal and informal communication, organizational perspective, relationship with subordinates and the personal feedback. In addition, three factors of organizational commitment were taken into considerations that are affective commitment, continuance commitment and normative commitment. The study followes the qualitative approach in collecting data from employees of Yahoo- Maktoob office in Amman/Jordan. Eight sub-hypotheses are developed and tested accordingly to conclude with the fact that communicational satisfaction has a significant and direct impact on organizational commitment.
R00|Exploring Buyer Motivation to Improve Management, Marketing, Sales, and Finance Practices in the Martial Arts Industry|The martial arts industry is experiencing immense growth, creating a highly competitive environment where challenges in attracting and retaining customers cause substantial losses and an inability to compete effectively. Customer memberships are the primary revenue source for fitness firms. Understanding buyer motivation is essential for marketing message creation and product development to attract and retain customers. The purpose of this qualitative, exploratory, single-case study was to investigate parent purchase motivation for children¡¯s martial arts classes and to document internal buying motives in order to address the problem of acquiring and retaining customers in the commercialized martial arts industry. The study sample consisted of seven parents, two instructors, and two owners. The data collection methods were semistructured interviews comprising open-ended questions. Interviews were analyzed using NVivo qualitative analysis software to code and analyze themes. The semistructured interviews identified 10 themes. Three new themes emerged¡ªease of participation, alternative to team sports, and convenience. Study findings contribute to the theory of planned behavior and theories used to predict purchase behavior. Recommendations for practice include refinements of product offerings and marketing messages and the creation of a new market segment, resulting in customer alignment and increased ability to attract and retain customers. Future research is recommended to replicate this study in other geographies, to use the data gathered in this study to seed qualitative research studies, and to weigh the relative influence of the three types of behaviors influencing intention in the theory of planned behavior.
R00|The Impacts of Brand Personality on Brand Loyalty: A Research on Automobile Brands in Turkey|In this pilot study investigating the impacts of automobile brand personality perceptions of Turkish consumers on their attitudinal and behavioral intentions, the effects of the personality attributed to the brand by the consumers on their behavioral intentions regarding preferences, recommendations and willingness to pay higher prices for the brand are examined. The study consists of two main parts. Definitions of brand personality and brand loyalty are made in the literature review section where the conceptual framework is sought to be formed. Our hypothesis to test the attitudinal and behavioral effects of the automobile brand personality following the conceptual framework is analyzed using a sample of 368 participants. The research results indicate that automobile brands are perceived such as competent and excited, and the effects of these dimensions on both behavioral and attitudinal loyalty have been seen to be stronger than the effects on the other two dimensions, namely, conventionality and androgyny. In the conclusion of the study, the impacts are evaluated, and suggestions are given to business managers, marketing researchers, and marketing researchers.
R00|Exploring the Consumer Impulse Buying Behaviour from a Range of Consumer and Product Related Factors|The main purpose of this study is to explore the consumer impulse buying behaviour from a range of consumer and product related factors. To achieve this purpose, the study was guided by five research questions in the area of product physical quality, product price, product attractiveness, product origin, and purchase location. The study employed quantitative method. A sample of 179 respondents (consumers) that visited the Accra Shopping Mall was employed using convenient selection method. A self-completed 5 point Likert structured questionnaire survey was the data collection instrument used. The data collected were computed and analysed with reliability statistics, Cramer¡¯s V statistics under a crosstabulation statistical technique test to determine the association between the variables involved in this study. Overall, findings indicate that, the association between consumer impulse buying behaviour and product physical quality, product price, product attractiveness, product origin and purchase location was not strong. Consequently, each of the five products related factors shows a weak association with consumer impulse buying behaviour. It is recommended that manufacturers and other stakeholders support retail shops in diverse methods to improve upon their selling techniques and new ways to appeal to consumers.
R00|What Drives Consumers to Accept M-ads on Their Hand-Held Devices? A Literature Review, Insights and Propositions for Emerging Markets|Mobile phone heavily penetrates into the consumers¡¯ eventful routine and assists their shopping immensely. Marketing managers confront the query of conveyance of effectual information about products quiet often. Realizing the key dynamics of attitudes and acceptance of m-ads is crucial in designing the customized marketing message. The article attempts to give an overview on determinants of consumers¡¯ attitude and acceptance of m-ads from the existing body of knowledge. Trust and credibility is recognized as sender¡¯s characteristic that should be maintained by managers. Informativeness, entertainment, perceived ease of use and incentives are grouped into m-ads characteristics that managers should pay much attention in designing the message. And, Managers should ponder the features of target audience as well in creating the message. i.e., perceived intrusiveness, perceived usefulness, personalization and perceived control. Therefore, article is expedient in both academia and industry in emerging markets in terms of discovering elements that shape consumers¡¯ attitudes and acceptance of mobile advertising.
R00|Why Some People Just ¡°Can¡¯t Get No Satisfaction¡±: Secure versus Insecure Attachment Styles Affect One¡¯s ¡°Style of Being in the Social World¡±|We first seek to explore the relationship between attachment styles of professional financial service customers and their ability to experience customer satisfaction and build relationships with a commercial bank. Secure attached people identify with the commercial bank, feel satisfied and are loyal with the commercial bank. Second, we question whether attachment styles and degrees of satisfaction are also reflected in a capacity to feel pleasure in attachments to luxury products, feel happiness and pro-activeness, develop positive relationships with others, and sleep well for multiple samples of non-commercial customers. Apparently, secure attached people form enjoyable attachments with luxury goods/brands. Equally, in life in general they show a proactive attitude and generosity toward others, and feel low envy. Anxious attachment style relates negatively with appraisal of and relationship formation with commercial banks, negatively with enjoyment and attachment to luxury goods, and negatively with generosity towards people and happiness. In addition, anxious attachment style relates positively with envy towards people and low sleep quality. Avoidant attachment style does not relate with any of the above variables except for a negative association with happiness with life in general. Finally, none of the attachment styles scales relates with the BIS-BAS scale, except that anxious attachment relates with the BIS scale, indicating largely that the attachment system does not function as an approach-avoidance system but helps in homeostatic regulation of stress due to the experience of quiescence with others. By studying how attachment styles affect people in commercial and general social domains we hope to pave the way for further exploration of the fundamental mechanisms that drive secure attached people as opposed to insecure attached people to generally experience positive emotions and outcomes in life. We tentatively suggest that compared to insecure attached people, secure attached people possess a different ¡°style of being in the social world.¡±
R00|Global Brand Identity as a Network of Localized Meanings|In this article, we develop a semiotic model to analyze advertisement glocalization. This model focuses on the mental representations that local audiences build of a ¡°global¡± brand identity. We demonstrate how this model fills up gaps left by a popular marketing model for global advertising. We argue that the seemingly linear three- step marketing model implies several reciprocal processes in which meaning is developed and determined. This semiotic reinterpretation of the marketing model explains how a global brand identity maintains a dynamic relation with the actual brand identity that local customers construe. To illustrate the dynamics of the semiotic model, we analyzed localizations in the Snickers campaign ¡°You¡¯re not you when you¡¯re hungry.¡± Because the semiotic model elaborates the dynamics between the professionals¡¯ discourse used in developing a campaign and the localized ¡°global¡± brand identities brought about in receiving the campaign, the model helps to explain anthropological dynamics in designing campaigns, the arising of locally differentiated ¡°global¡± brand identities that are the result of global campaigns and the dynamic development of global campaigns.
R00|How Much Should Managers Pay for Celebrity Endorsements?|Firms that choose to include celebrity endorsements in their advertisements are required to pay large sums in advance for these appearances, even though there is no guarantee of future sales of the target product. As such, managers require a method to evaluate the monetary value of including celebrity endorsements in advertising. In this study employing two experimental designs, we provide a rigorous and predictable framework to measure the potential marginal contribution of celebrity endorsements, which can serve as an objective standard for managers when calculating celebrity appearance budgets. Implications for researchers and practitioners are also discussed.
R00|Creative Marketing as a Strategic Introduction to Enhance the Competitive Advantages in Jordanian Service Organizations: A Case Study|The study aims at identifying the concept as well as the factors of creative marketing in service organizations and recognizing the development in the service sector at a global level. The sample of the study was comprised of (16) Jordanian service organizations that were intentionally chosen. The sampled organizations represent 16% of the population. The study is an attempt to find out the role of creative marketing in reaching the competitive advantage in Jordanian service organizations while depending upon the basic factors of creativity in the marketing mix (7Ps). The significance of the study lies in the examination of the efficiency of creative marketing at the organizational level. Creativity refers to the trends adopted by the entrepreneurial organizations, which seeks to provide creative products and services while positively making a change in the competitive base. The creative process in organizations is shaped through researching and developing creative ideas in order to increase profits and investment revenues of successful products and services as well as improving the strategic status. The study has come out with several findings and recommendations that include: the necessity of establishing a department for marketing in the organization, defining whose responsibility it is to develop and to create new products by building a creative personnel that is highly educated in marketing, creating a balance in terms of creativity among various marketing areas and not only focusing on the product in spite of its significance, and structuring an administrative branch that is specialized in creativity particularly in marketing creativity in each of the sampled organizations. It was discovered that these organizations administrative branches sought to find out effective marketing ideas, filter them, evaluate them, and turned the useful ideas into innovative products and developed tangible products mainly to serve the customers of the organization.
R00|The Impact of E-Service Quality and E-Loyalty on Online Shopping: Moderating Effect of E-Satisfaction and E-Trust|This paper analyzes the role of online satisfaction and e-trust as mediators in the relationship between electronic service quality (e-SQ) and online loyalty (integrating behavioral and attitudinal elements), in the context of e-shopping. In an increasingly competitive environment, e-retailers need to know the determinants of the success of their online distribution channels in terms of service quality and the influence of this on e-satisfaction, e-trust and e-loyalty. Using a sample of 302 website users of amazon.com in Jordan, confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling were performed to test the relationship between these dimensions. Three dimensions were found to be the main explanatory factors of e-SQ, namely efficiency, privacy and customer service. In addition, it was confirmed that satisfaction mediates the relationship between e-SQ and behavioral and attitudinal loyalty.
R00|Applying an Extended Kernel Density 4-Step Floating Catchment Area Method to Identify Priority Districts to Promote New Publicly Financed Supply of Gastroenterology Exams|In continental Portugal, the publicly financed supply of gastroenterology exams was limited since the end of the last century, restricted to a fixed set of private providers that was hired by the Portuguese state. This way of contracting created market entry barriers and is inefficient, since prices are administratively set. Besides, it produced access inequalities, because of the way that the supply was geographically distributed. This paper applies the Extended Kernel Density 4-Step Floating Catchment Area (EKD4SFCA) method to identify priority districts for the promotion of new supply by the state, in order to choose the appropriate way of contracting new private supply, as determined by current law, and to reduce access inequalities. The applied method enables the identification of the Portuguese regions with strong competition between health care providers and where patients¡¯ access to publicly financed gastroenterology exams is relatively low. In these regions, the state should promote public bids to stimulate new supply, exploring thereby the potential for setting lower prices and reducing access inequalities.
R00|Risk of Disability, Old-age and Death: Pension Sustainability in Colombia|This paper concludes that the sustainability of the public ¡°pay-as-you-go¡± pension regime in Colombia (RPM) looks fragile and is threatened by massive transfers from the private ¡°defined contributions¡± regime (RAIS) to the RPM. The fiscal deficit of the RPM could be rising from 140% of GDP (in NPV) to 228% of GDP during the next three decades on account of the migration of close to nine million retirees moving to the RPM. Pressure to the fiscal budget will increase towards 90% of GDP (in NPV) as a result of the pension shortfall, making it very difficult to comply with a fiscal target of 4% of GDP per year. In addition, the life annuities¡¯ market is quite shallow in Colombia due to: i) the State guarantee of a pension equivalent to 100% of a legal-minimum-wage (1 LMW); which in turn is fully indexed to annual inflation; and ii) the risk of assuming longer periods of pension enjoyment via judicial sentences (elevating the current expectations of 20-25 year period of enjoyment). Limiting the pension guarantee to 50-75% of a LMW, allowing for life-annuities recalculation, and decreasing the cost-margin of insurance companies would help place the Colombian life annuities market in a more financially sustainable path.
R00|Work Health and Safety, Competitive Advantage, and Organisational Performance in Small Construction Firms: Research Proposal|Research into small firms has expanded over recent years, yet one field where insight is still limited is Work Health and Safety (WHS) especially in the high risk construction industry. The main objective of this research proposal is to provide the foundation for a potential future study that explores the impact of WHS on developing a competitive advantage and improving organisational performance from the perspective of the owner-managers of small Australian construction firms using a qualitative multiple case design. This research proposal investigates a sample of four small construction firms from the same industry therefore the findings can¡¯t be generalised to other work environments, which a limitation to the proposed study.
R00|The Effectiveness of Community Development and Environmental Protection Program in Oil and Gas Industry in Indonesia: Policy, Institutional, and Implementation Review|In all industries, inclusively oil and gas, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), including community development and environmental protection, have a significance role for the sustainability of company business. However, despite established government regulations and a large amount of company budget for the program, the big question that arises is whether these programs have been effectively addressed the social and environmental needs of surrounding communities, and whether the program succeeded in supporting the sound operation of oil and gas companies. This qualitative research is conducted by collecting data from the central and local governments in Indonesia, from oil and gas companies throughout Indonesia, as well as from communities near operating areas, through desk study, survey, in-depth interviews, and Focus Group Discussion (FGD). The results showed that, in general, the community development and environmental protection program have been implemented. Unfortunately, the programs have not been yet fit to the societies socio-environmental condition, have not been yet answered all communities¡¯ social, economic, environmental, and cultural issues, and have not been yet fully supported the sound operation of the company. This means that the programs have not been used effectively.
R00|The Effect of Service Quality on Satisfaction apropos Service Recipients of Divisional Secretariats in Colombo District in Sri Lanka|A vast array of knowledge has been accumulated on the effect of service quality on customer satisfaction, particularly with a large number of studies over the past few years. However, the effect of service quality on satisfaction of service recipients in Divisional Secretariats in the Public Sector is relatively an unattended area by researchers. Hence, this study was carried out to evaluate the effect of service quality on satisfaction of service recipients of divisional secretariats. This particular organization was selected for the study as it is considered to be the most significant service provider in terms of statutory, social, economic and development in the country. A questionnaire survey and personal interviews were conducted to collect data by using the purposive sampling method. A modified questionnaire was prepared based on SERVQUAL instruments with two additional questions. A sample of 520 service recipients from 13 Divisional Secretariats in Colombo was drawn and it was represented by 40 from each division. Correlation analysis and multiple regression analysis were used to examine the relative impact of the service quality on satisfaction of service recipients. The study revealed that all the service quality attributes positively related to satisfaction of the service recipients. The findings of the study show that satisfaction of service recipients in terms of service quality has not met the expected level, which a divisional secretariat is deemed to provide for.
R00|Green Workplace Behaviour in Saudi Arabia: The Case of EnviroCo|In order to enhance sustainability in the workplace, recent research has focused on the practices which can promote employees¡¯ green behaviour. However, there is little work that examines the extent to which companies use HRM practices to foster green bahaviour. This study has investigated this issue through a survey conducted in a government agency in Saudi Arabia. Overall, the findings suggest that senior managers are aware of the importance of green workplace behaviour and recognize that a certain number of HRM practices can promote and support this behaviour. However, these practices are not used effectively and senior managers can only marginally foster pro-environmental behaviour in their organization.
R00|Sustainability Practice of a Multinational Oil Company in Nigeria: A Case Study|Environmental degradation and socioeconomic dilemma continue to affect agricultural productivity in the Niger Delta of Nigeria. Several works of literature confirm the high level of pollution and contamination of land and water as a result of over 50 years of oil production in the region. The effects of environmental pollution continue to aggravate the hardship of the local people, which generates development friction, threaten oil operation, and mutually contrive relational efforts, by so invoking mistrust between oil companies and the host communities. Sustainability programs of oil companies often provide the channel to engage and promote community relations from which projects are conceived and executed. Despite sustainability efforts of oil companies, the region continues to experience oil spills and environmental degradation. Hence, the current research explores the sustainability efforts of a multinational oil company to establish whether the company¡¯s leadership makes environmental considerations and to identify possible corrections that could be adopted to achieve sustainable value. For this purpose, the paper employed a single case study approach using open-ended interview sessions in collecting data. Research data were gathered from a sample of 20 experienced sustainability practitioners of the oil company, partnering nonprofit organizations, and community leaders through face-to-face semi-structured interviews. Data were segmented and categorized. The data analysis process revealed several themes regarding the challenges and shortfalls of sustainability programs in the region. The evidence found suggests that implementing a transparent and inclusive sustainability management system is essential to enable a systems view in contemplating sustainability programs. In so doing, oil MNCs leaders could enable effective environmental consideration in their sustainability programs to help reinvigorate productive agriculture and ensure continuing oil operation.
R00|How to Restore Forest Areas in a Smallholder Agriculture-Dominated Country?|This study deals with ways of addressing more effectively the problems of forest restoration in a smallholder agriculture-dominated area like the southwest Cote d¡¯Ivoire. An empirical estimation based on a probit model is used to analyze the farmer decisions concerning their eventual participation to the national program of forest development based on a policy of large-scale reforestation. The results show that the main explicative variables of smallholders¡¯ adhesion to this project are agricultural training, ethnic group, access to credit, the age of the head of household and the household¡¯s residence area. Contrary to all expectations, some variables such as literacy, out-farm income, and the status of landowner and whole-time farmer do not explain the decision of smallholder.
R00|CSR Orientation from the Mexican Businessmen Perspective of Service Enterprises|The present study aimed to know the businessmen perception in Mexico regarding the four social responsibilities originally proposed by Carroll (1979); to that end, the investigation proposed to determine if there are differences between the values assigned by the businessmen for each of the social responsibilities, and in case of significant differences, to contrast these responsibilities in order to identify any pattern of relative importance among them. Additionally, the study also sought to determine significant correlations between the social responsibilities of business organizations. By means of a non-probabilistic sampling method, information was collected from a sample of 150 entrepreneurs of the service sector from a city located in a northwestern state of Mexico. The research results contribute with empirical evidence on the orientation of the corporate social responsibility in this country, by identifying differences and significant correlations between the social responsibilities. Furthermore, similarities were foundin the pattern of relative importance given to these responsibilities by businessmen in Mexico and other countries, reinforcing the idea that the economic dimension is the most important social responsibility for the business sector.
R00|Competitive Advantage Based on Human Capital and its Impact on Organizational Sustainability: Applied Study in Jordanian Telecommunications Sector|The current situation facing business organizations is characterized by diverse work environments with continuous change and development. Todays organizations seek to keep pace with this continuous development and operate to maintain their current business through the ability to effectively respond to change, and to create competitive advantage based on the existence of qualified human capital that contribute to the creation of organizational sustainability in the business sector. Talented human capital, with special skills, has the potential to create confidence and integration among the staff and top management, leading to organizational growth and continuation (Kurucz, 2013). The emergence of a set of challenges in the knowledge economy has had a clear reflection on business organizations which have begun to search for new mechanisms to compete and insure their existence in the business world. Hence, the importance of the concept of competitive advantage, based on human capital, as a necessary requirement to deal with the challenges faced by local, regional or international organizations (Global Institute, 2011). Where competitive advantage based on human capital is the main generator of new ideas, development of old ideas, and contribution to aid in organizational abilities to expand their current market share as well as maximizing value. Competitive advantage based on talented human capital allows organizations to be able to seize new opportunities and achieve permanence and future continuity (Thomas, 2014). This study aimed to look at the impact of competitive advantage through intellectual capital investment as one of the elements in the creation of organizational sustainability in the Jordanian Telecommunications Companies sector. Simple and Multiple regression was used for data analysis and testing the hypotheses of this research .This study has reached a set of results that previous studies reinforced in this area such as: Competitive advantage based on a distinct capital is the optimum method that should be used in telecommunications companies since it contributes to the optimal investment of human capital. This leads to optimum organizational sustainability for companies in various fields and also contributes to the achievement of a company¡¯s mission and vision of the future.
R00|Digital Environmentalism: A Case Study of PM2.5 Pollution Issue in Chinese Social Media|The emergence of social media over the last decade has substantially altered not only the means people communicate with each other but also the whole online ecosystems. For the common public in particular, social media enables and broadens the social conversation that anyone interested can engage in on urgent social problems such as environmental pollution. In China, the ever-thickening air pollution smothering most urban cities in recent years has provoked a nationwide discussion, and popular social media like Weibo has been fully utilised by various social actors to participate in this ¡°green speak¡±. This paper examines the civil discourse about the deteriorating air pollution on China¡¯s largest microblogging platform-Sina Weibo, and seeks to understand how different social actors respond to and reconstruct the reality. Through a discourse analysis aided by a text analytics/ visualisation software¡ªLeximancer, this paper investigates the civil discourse from three angles: the demographics, the discursive strategies and the potential social effect. The result suggests that proactive civil engagement in this issue has produced an environmental discourse with a wide range of topics involved, and that the benign interactions between social actors could give rise to a proactive interactional mode between Chinese state and civil society which would definitely be beneficial to the democratisation process in contemporary China.
R00|Entrepreneurial Orientation and Growth in Mexican Small Business|In the literature, there are various studies relating positively the entrepreneurial orientation to business performance. In such studies a great deal of variables have been introduced to measure business performance, among the variables most accepted by researchers and academics are profit and business growth. Therefore, it is possible to consider that entrepreneurial orientation plays an essential role in business growth. For that reason, this paper has the objective to analyse the existing relationship between entrepreneurial orientation and growth, by using a random sample of 318 small and medium-sixed enterprises in Mexico. The results obtained show that proactivity, risk taking and innovativeness along with the competitive aggression and autonomy have significant and positive effects on small and medium-sized enterprises¡¯ growth.
R00|Urban-Rural Connections and Development Perspectives In Portugal|Portugal is characterized by a significant asymmetry in the population distribution/density and economic activity as well as in social and cultural dynamics. This means very diverse landscapes, differences in regional development, sustainability and quality of life, mainly between urban and rural areas. A consequence coherent with the contemporary dynamics: urbanization of many rural areas that loose their productive-agricultural identity and, simultaneously, the reintegration in urban areas of spaces and activities with more rural characteristics. In this process of increasing complexity of organization of the landscape is essential to restore the continuum naturale (between urban and rural areas) allowing closer links to both ways of life. A strategy supported in the landscape, which plays important functions for public interest, in the cultural, social, ecological and environmental fields. At the same time, constitutes an important resource for economic activity, as underlined in the European Landscape Convention.
R00|The unitary elasticity property in a monocentric city with negative exponential population density|The central prediction of the monocentric city model is that real estate prices, density of development, population density, and land rent decline with the distance from urban center. The spatial pattern follows a negative exponential under the conditions derived by Brueckner (1982) and McDonald and Kim (1987). Research has demonstrated that these exponential density gradients have flattened over time due to rising income and falling transportation costs. This paper identifies a heretofore unknown property in a monocentric city with negative exponential population density, the “unitary elasticity property (UEP).” If a city is characterized by a constant density gradient, even if the slope of that gradient is changing over time, the sum of the elasticity of central density and the elasticity of land area with respect to population change will be approximately equal to unity. When this new prediction is tested, it fits US cities fairly well. Further analysis demonstrates that topographic barriers and age of housing stock are the key factors explaining the deviation from the UEP.
R00|Critical Success Factors of International Projects in Vietnam|This empirical paper focuses on the critical success factors of international projects in Vietnam. Our regression results indicate that two factors including project conditions and partners’ capacities do not have significant impact on the project success in Vietnam. In contrast, we found only two factors including partners’ commitments and communication that have significant and positive impact on the project success. So, in an environment with many policy changes like Vietnam, if the stakeholders make strong commitments, the success likelihood of international project is higher. Also, smooth internal and external communication contributes plays an important role in the project management, stakeholder connection and decision-making process that are favorable for the project success.
R00|CRM Implementation in Saudi Banking Sector|Banking in Saudi Arabia has undergone considerable growth, and the importance of customer relationship management (CRM) activities aimed at enriching the overall service satisfaction among its customers is intensifying. The aim of this paper is to study the CRM implementation process within Saudi banks and evaluate the most important constructs of CRM to create a model that helps organizations to implement CRM successfully. A survey of 101 respondents from the banking industry in Saudi Arabia participated in this study to investigate CRM implementation and the main constructs associated with this process. Data were analyzed to validate the proposed model for CRM implementation.
R00|Culture Impact on Perceptions of Communication Effectiveness|Early research on relationship marketing highlights the role of communication in shaping trusted and committed business partnerships. Various studies validate communication as one of the strongest determinants of relationship commitment, loyalty, trust and satisfaction. But, few have studied the predictors of communication effectiveness, especially in a global context. The purpose of this study is to analyze the impact of cooperation, quality communication, conflict handling and two-way communication as predictors of communication effectiveness. The perception of their impact on increasing communication effectiveness is tested in the context of buyer-supplier relationship in one high-context/relationship-based country (Brazil) and one low-context/rule-based country (U.S.). Structural equation modeling is used to test the relationships in the model. Results suggest that suppliers focus more on fostering cooperation when dealing with buyers from low-context countries and on conflict avoidance when dealing with buyers of high-context countries. Across both contexts, results further indicate that buyers are universally influenced by the quality of communication exchanged with their buyers.
R00|Case Study, Simulation and Management Games: Use, Benefits and Barriers in Undergraduate Business School Program (CEAS-IMSIU)|This research focused on three main teaching methods: case study, simulation, and management games from both theoretical as well as empirical aspects. It explores the use, the benefits, and the barriers of the mentioned teaching methods related to the main management courses from Faculty Members (FMs) perspectives. The empirical investigation was based on a survey of all business departments' faculty members. This study revealed (1) the predominant use of lecturing despite the respondents' engagement in case study, simulation, and management games. It showed that (2) the frequency use of these teaching supports was particularly related to some courses, not systematically, and depended on the faculty member (rank, experience, place of degree). Finally, (3) the main barriers preventing the FMs from using these teaching methods are associated with resources, more than risk and suitability.
R00|Do (Audit Firm and Key Audit Partner) Rotations Affect Value Relevance? Empirical Evidence from the Italian Context|This research aims to investigate whether and to what extent investors place more weight on accounting amounts disclosed in annual reports issued by entities that experienced a rotation of the audit firm or of the key audit partner. Analysing a sample of 97 non-financial entities listed in the Milan stock exchange over the period 2006-2014, the paper provides evidence that rotations positively affect the value relevance of accounting amounts. In addition, the paper shows how the audit firm rotation and the key partner rotation act only in part as substitutes, as the former is more capable than the latter of positively affecting the value relevance of earnings and book value. These results provide a theoretical contribution to the literature and have significant implications for standard setters. The rotations, even though could determine a loss of client-specific knowledge, nonetheless improve the value relevance of accounting amounts. New rules that require the key partner rotation have a positive effect as long as they do not consider such rotation as an alternative to the rotation of the audit firm being the partner rotation less capable to affect the value relevance of accounting amounts than the key audit firm rotation.
R00|Study of the Social and Cultural Aspects of Saudi Tourists and Evaluate the Services Provided to Tourist of Saudi - An Applied Study for the Tourism Sector in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia|The current study is based on the tourism sector in Saudi Arabia. Kingdom’s tourism industry earnings from international travelers and tourism services are poised to hit SAR80 billion in 2015. The tourism industry in Saudi Arabia has witnessed an increasing level of growth in recent years and is seen to continue this trend moving forward. The industry has undergone a major transformation led by the commitment to upgrade the Kingdom’s infrastructure as well as improving its hospitality sector. Religious tourism is the main attraction for inbound tourists and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future, the government has taken steps to increase domestic tourism and persuade potential outbound tourists from vacationing abroad. However, large investment in the sector is required to bring these ambitious plans to fruition. The tourism sector comprises only 2% of government funding compared to the industrial sector. In this report random sampling was used as it is the best known form of probability sample. Pilot study was conducted by taking convenience sampling. To find the quantitative analysis SPSS 18.0 software is used. In this report factor analysis is used for the reliability test of the questionnaire. Chi-Square test is used for comparing the collected data with the desired data from the certain hypothesis on the other hand Pearson Correlation is used to measure means of a statistical test. The study evaluates the services provided to the tourist visiting the kingdom and at the same time it measures the satisfaction level of the tourists. The report is based on primary and secondary data for the primary data the questionnaire was used and being distributed to the tourists visiting the kingdom. Five hypothesis was proposed and are being analyzed using Chi – Square test and correlation test. The current study states that there are several variables, where excellent satisfaction is being rated by the tourists where as there are several factors where the authority needs to pay importance, which is mentioned in detail in this report. The outcome of this report also suggests some major policy recommendation by which convenience, excellence and comfort could be given to the tourists visiting the kingdom.
R00|A Critical Analysis of Mercosur Countries’ Trade Relationships with the United States and China|The Mercosur trade alliance formed in 1991 is composed of six full member countries. Historically, Mercosur member countries have been engaged in international trade with the United States, Japan, and the European Union, but recently, China has become a dominant player in the region, with increased foreign direct investment and international trade. Chinese commercial and trade involvement was followed by a visit to the region by President Jiang Zemin in 2001; therefore, this study relied on a 2000–2015 data series. Chinese enterprises are competing well with U.S. corporations in almost all Mercosur member countries. A majority of Mercosur members had a trade deficit with China in recent years, suggesting that Mercosur members cannot leverage their export industries and are losing their competitiveness. The future of the Mercosur-China trade relationship is bright because both sides require each other’s products. Future involvement also depends on the Chinese government’s strategic goals, and the competitiveness of U.S. corporations.
R00|Role of Stock Exchanges in Economic Development of Uzbekistan|The paper is devoted to study the contemporary role of investments to economic development in the context of Uzbek stock exchange. The comparative analysis of economic development and stock market trends in Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Russia for the period of 2000-2015 are conducted using documentary analysis, quantitative and qualitative analysis, and other statistical methods of research. The results reveal that Uzbekistan has made notable change in regulation and improvement of investment climate and has stable economic development trends for the studied period. However, Stock market development in Uzbekistan remains weak and recent government effort to accelerate privatization is expected to boost the market and support foreign investments attraction.
R00|Welfare and Distributional Impacts of Financial Liberalization in an Open Economy: Lessons from a Multi-Sectoral Dynamic CGE Model for Nepal|By equalizing rates of return across sectors, financial liberalization improves efficiency and equalizes the distribution of income. Efficiency gained in the allocation of resources increases capital usage more in previously heavily repressed sectors such as agriculture and textile, allowing up to a 19 percent expansion in production and employment. The savings and investment responses, degree of factor substitutions, are higher in the complete liberalization than in partial or piecemeal liberalization. Income, consumption, utility and overall welfare of rural and urban households increase. Liberalization is not effective if savings are used in accumulations of unproductive assets i.e. gold, jewellery, urban land, and foreign exchange. Financial liberalization improves the distribution of income by raising the wage rate of rural labor than for urban labor as rural labour-intensive sectors invest more with increased access to financial institutions and demand more labor to complement additional capital employed in these sectors.
R00|The Impact of Transformational Leadership on Organizational Performance via the Mediating Role of Corporate Social Responsibility: A Structural Equation Modeling Approach|This study aims to examine the associated relationships between transformational leadership, corporate social responsibility, and organizational performance. A total of 217 questionnaires were gathered from employees operating the various pharmaceutical companies in Jordan and then were analysed using structural equation modelling (SEM). The results of the data were threefold. First, transformational leadership did not have a positive influence on organizational performance. Second, transformational leadership did have a positive influence on corporate social responsibility. Third, corporate social responsibility did have a positive influence on organizational performance. These findings may aid future researchers in their quest in understanding the inherent relationships that lie between the variables in question and may provide a platform for managers in their efforts to improve organizational performance.
R00|The Impact of Brand Crisis on Consumers’ Green Purchase Intention and Willingness to Pay More|The purpose of the study is to develop an original framework to explore the effects of brand crisis on green purchase intentions and willingness to pay more. This study composes of seven original concepts, which are perceived brand crisis, green brand image, green trust, green brand equity, green perceived value, green purchase intentions and willingness to pay more to develop an integrated model. For this reason, an online survey was carried out in testing the model that includes questions measuring the effects of these variables. Smart PLS structural equation modelling is applied to verify the research framework. A total of 504 questionnaires were collected from Turkish consumers living in Turkey. According to the findings acquired from the structural equation modelling, there is an impact of the perceived brand crisis on green brand image, green trust, green brand equity and green perceived value. Consequently, green brand equity and green perceived value except for green brand image and green trust influence the green purchase intention. Moreover, green purchase intention affects willingness to pay more. Existing studies have shown that perceived brand crisis affects the brand equity, brand trust, brand image, perceived value and purchase intentions. However, there is not any research to shed light on the impact of perceived brand crisis on green brand equity, green brand image, green trust, green perceived value, green purchase intention and willingness to pay more. Therefore, this paper develops a research framework to fill the research gap.
R00|Developing Perceived Greenwash Index and Its Effect on Green Brand Equity: A Research on Gas Station Companies in Turkey|Today, companies are searching for the ways to be perceived as more sensitive to the environment in order to enhance their green brand equity, because of consumers’ increasing environmental concern. Companies have reacted to increasing environmental consciousness of consumers by introducing and developing eco-friendly products. However, there are still consumers being suspicious about the environmental performance of companies and their products. Greenwash or disclosure of deceptive green claims decreases the popularity of the real green product and decreases the effectiveness of green marketing. This study proposed four constructs -greenwashing, green perceived risk, green confusion and green trust- as the predictors of the green brand equity of gas station companies. The study offers a negative relationship between greenwash perception and green brand equity. Besides, the effects of green confusion, green perceived risk and green trust on green brand equity are tested. The study also develops perceived greenwash index, so that it reveals a direct effect of greenwash on green brand equity. The empirical analysis was carried out based on the data obtained from 400 customers of the gas station companies, which are located in Ankara, the capital city of Turkey. The survey result was analyzed by using Partial Least Squares (PLS-PM) analysis method. The results reveal that consumer’s greenwash perception has a positive effect on green confusion and green perceived risk, whereas green confusion and green perceived risk have negative effects on green trust. Expectedly, green trust has a positive effect on green brand equity. The result also indicates that consumer’s greenwash perception negatively and directly affects green brand equity.
R00|Economic Performance of U.S. Multinational Manufacturing Firms: The Linkages between Foreign Direct Investment and Firm Strategy|This research uses an unbalanced date set for a sample of U.S. multinational manufacturing firms to evaluate the effect of the relationships between firm strategic factors (i.e. firm size, marketing intensity and capital intensity) and foreign direct investment (FDI) on firm’s financial performance. Specifically, this study evaluates the direct effect of FDI activity on firm performance, the indirect effect of FDI activity on firm performance, and the moderating effect of FDI activity on the relationships between strategic factors and firm performance. The results suggest that FDI activity plays an important role on the financial strength of U.S. multinational manufacturing firms, and reveal interesting interactions between FDI and some firm strategic factors and their positive effect on financial performance.
R00|Ownership Structure and Corporate Performance from the Perspective of Ultimate Ownership: Evidence from Chinese State-owned Listed Enterprises|This paper selects 850 state-owned listed enterprises from 2009 to 2014 in China's Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchange to explore the impact of ownership structure on corporate performance from the perspective of ultimate ownership, and takes the endogeneity of ownership structure into deeper consideration. The study finds that ultimate ownership has no significant influence on corporate performance in state-owned enterprises. The separation of two rights and corporate performance shows a significant inverse U-shaped relationship. Taking the institutional environment into account, the inverse U-shaped relationship only exists in areas with poor institutional environment. To a certain degree, there exists the endogeneity of ownership structure.
R00|E-government Adoption in Developing Countries: Need of Customer-centric Approach: A Case of Pakistan|The e-government implementation in developing countries is always less successful and objectively hard to achieve and the reason behind is a less citizen-centric approach. Therefore, the effect of trust and social influence will be studied while understanding the adoption behavior of citizens in developing countries. Specifically, a case of selected e-service (e-filling of taxation by ‘Federal Board of Revenue' (FBR)) will be studied in Pakistan. The sole purpose of the study is to pull the external factors like trust and social influence to increase e-government adoption in the massively populated region of the world. The quantitative approach will be followed where the current users of selected e-service will be inquired under the modified version of a generic framework of ‘Technology Adoption Model' (TAM). The sample size of 153 is filtered and analyzed by using Structural Equation Modeling (SPSS AMOS) to study the intentions of the citizens. In methodological terms, deductive, quantitative method is adopted in interpretive philosophical manner. Collectively, trust and social influence are studied in order to find the impact on the intentions of citizens in the developing countries. However, the trust is the strongest predictor after social influence is recorded. Similarly, the usefulness observed to be a strong predictor of intentions in comparison of ease of use in the current scenario.
R00|A Study on the Impact of Airline Corporate Reputation on Brand Loyalty|This study analyzes the impact of airline corporate reputation on brand loyalty. An empirical analysis is carried out via a questionnaire survey of Korean airline passengers. The results from 250 respondents are then investigated using structural equation modeling. Airline corporate reputation is shown to have a significant influence on brand image, price, perceived service quality, and brand preference. In addition, price, perceived service quality, and brand preference have a statistically significant influence on behavioral loyalty and attitudinal loyalty.
R00|Supply Chain Management Maturity: A Comprehensive Framework Proposal from Literature Review and Case Studies|Supply chains have an important role in the competition on the current market. The understanding of maturity and its dimensions in terms of supply chain management – SCM can lead companies to better levels of performance. This paper aims to present findings on supply chain management maturity showing a theoretical model developed from the literature review and its application on three case studies. A systematic approach was used to the literature review. Due to the lack in the literature related to the purpose of this paper a long period was considered for the search of references linked to maturity of supply chain management. The approaches for SCM maturity proposed on the literature suggest different e common dimensions which drive a maturity of SCM. These dimensions can be consolidated in eleven key-dimensions of maturity for SCM. Also, it is possible to verify that as the maturity of SCM evolves to an advanced level more integrated and capable a supply chain becomes. The application of this theoretical model through case studies could confirm the framework proposed and generated new directions of research. The theoretical model was applied in three case studies from different segment of industry and with different level of maturity. A qualitative approach was more adequate for this initial step aligned with this exploratory purpose. More qualitative and quantitative studies need to be done to obtain more evidences from the field and from other different segment of industry. This theoretical model is unique taking into consideration that it was developed from various perspectives of maturity proposed on the literature. This same structure can be applied in more field researches seeking better understandings about maturity of SCM. Also, it can be used by practitioners with the purpose to get a better view of SCM maturity dimensions and allow establishing new directions in terms of supply chain decisions.
R00|Investigating How Corporate Governance Affects Performance of Firm in Small Emerging Markets: An Empirical Analysis for Jordanian Manufacturing Firms|This paper aims at exploring how the mechanisms of corporate governance (audit committee size, CEO duality, board size, female board members and board composition) affect the firm performance. Based on data from 66 out of 69 firms, which represents (95.6%) of Jordanian publicly quoted manufacturing firms covering a five-year period (2008–2012), the use of multiple regression analysis was done for assessing how each of the mechanisms of corporate governance relates to firm performance. The empirical findings of this study suggest that size of firm and Tobin's Q and ROA shows a significant positive correlation, while leverage and ROA show significant correlations. Results indicate that CEO duality and size of board have negative correlation with ROA, while non-executive directors' proportion shows a positive correlation with ROA. No relationship was recognized between the female board members' proportion and audit committee size and ROA. Conversely, the variables of corporate governance do not show a relation with measure of market performance, which supports the argument that market-based performance measures are impartial when economic circumstances are normal in context of emerging markets. The paper provides insight into better understanding how the various mechanisms of corporate governance are related to the performance of firm given the scenario of a small emerging market of non-oil-producing country.
R00|Celebrity Endorsement for Nonprofit Organizations: The Role of Experience-based Fit between Celebrity and Cause|Although using celebrities to raise awareness and funds for social causes is a popular technique these days, little research has offered a theoretical explanation for the effects of a celebrity’s personal values on socially oriented communications. This paper, therefore, aims to investigate the role of celebrity experience with a cause, as well as the celebrity endorser’s association with the not-for-profit organizations, in determining the effectiveness of the celebrity’s endorsement of the cause. Results reveal that a celebrity’s personal experience with the endorsed cause positively influences consumers’ perceived congruence between the celebrity and the cause, attributions of the celebrity altruistic motives for the endorsement, perceptions of the celebrity credibility, and attitudes toward the celebrity and the nonprofit organization. Additionally, a celebrity associated with an organization as a founder compared to a spokesperson appears to yield more favorable perceptions of celebrity credibility and attitudes toward the celebrity and the organization. Finally, interesting interaction effects between the celebrity-cause fit and the celebrity’s association with the nonprofit organization emerged. Findings of the present study provide insights into the potential benefits and liabilities of using a celebrity to promote a social cause in the nonprofit sector.
R00|Sustainability and Competitive Advantage: A Study in a Brazilian Cosmetic Company|Sustainability is an increasingly common and important issue in daily life, which in turn becomes an advantage when handled strategically by managers in their businesses. Nevertheless, in the Brazilian cosmetics and personal care industry one can find companies that consciously resist this trend. In this context, this article aims to highlight the advantages of using sustainability as a business strategy. The method used was a case study with a qualitative approach. In the case of the company, which was the subject of study of this work, the reasons that have led it to remain inert are strongly related to its model for running the business, especially the lack of long-term planning, a strong hierarchy, low leadership awareness and overvaluation of investors, making sustainability a seemingly incompatible matter for the organization. The studied company's own stakeholders, particularly employees, have identified several innovative opportunities for it to progress toward sustainability. However, in most cases, managers have been prevented from pursuing sustainable actions on the grounds that such initiatives are subjective and have no value.
R00|Sources of productivity differentials in manufacturing in post-transition urban South-East Europe|The paper analyses the effects of urbanization and localisation economies on manufacturing firms’ productivity across urban landscapes in post-transition South-East European (SEE) countries. Fixed-effects panel data estimations on a large sample of firms show that the factors accounting for productivity advantages of manufacturing firms in urban post-transition SEE are related to the firms and to the environment in which these firms operate. Firms located in diversified cities benefit from a productivity premium generated in this type of agglomeration, while no evidence was found that the relative specialization across industries has any effect on firm productivity levels.
R00|Urban Productivity in the Developing World|Africa is urbanizing rapidly, and this creates both opportunities and challenges. Labor productivity appears to be much higher in developing-world cities than in rural areas, and historically urbanization is strongly correlated with economic growth. Education seems to be a strong complement to urbanization, and entrepreneurial human capital correlates strongly with urban success. Immigrants provide a natural source of entrepreneurship, both in the U.S. and in Africa, which suggests that making African cities more livable can generate economic benefits by attracting talent. Reducing the negative externalities of urban life requires a combination of infrastructure, incentives, and institutions. Appropriate institutions can mean independent public authorities, public-private partnerships, and non-profit entities depending on the setting.
R00|Multi-objective local environmental simulator (MOLES 1.0): Model specification, algorithm design and policy applications|This paper describes MOLES 1.0, an integrated land-use and transport model developed with Object-Oriented Programming principles in order to combine selected characteristics from Spatial Computable General Equilibrium and microsimulation models.
R00|Gendered Experience of Interpersonal Violence in Urban and Rural Spaces: The Case of Ghana|This paper exploits unique quantitative data from Ghana to investigate gendered experiences of inter-personal domestic and non-domestic violence in urban and rural areas. Urban areas are characterised by lower levels of domestic violence against women but higher levels of non-domestic violence against men than rural areas. We conduct Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition analyses to identify the sources of these differences. Urban areas reduce violence through higher welfare, education and employment outcomes, and lower alcohol consumption and polygamy prevalence than in rural areas. But more people living alone and wider insecurity in urban environments have the opposite effect on domestic and non-domestic violence.
R00|Rural Waste Management Issues at Global Level(Introductory chapter)|This chapter intends to draw attention to solid waste management sector toward rural areas where bad practices and public health threats could be avoided through traditional and integrated waste management routes. The expansion of waste collection services across rural municipalities should be a priority for many countries. Agricultural and municipal waste diversion from wild dumps and open burning practices must be avoided through smart solutions at the local level which are cost-efficient particularly in developing countries. The book further examines, on the one hand, the main challenges in the development of reliable waste management practices across rural regions and, on the other hand, the concrete solutions and the new opportunities across the world in dealing with rural solid waste.
R00|Manage energy/environmental footprints of travel: A proposed solution/methodology|Congestion is a growing challenge in major urban areas worldwide; a challenge that imposes enormous social and private costs to society. Despite these substantial costs, our knowledge is limited about how transportation users value choices that can reduce fuel consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG), and criteria pollutant emissions (PM2.5, NOx, CO, etc.). In this regard, I proposed the advanced traveler general information system (ATGIS), a scheme that can estimate/provide travelers with travel cost data that they currently do not have. In this paper, I explain the steps required to test, examine, and develop such a scheme for a metropolitan area.
R00|Taylor Rule During the Zero or Low Interest Rate Era: The Recent Japanese Case|The Taylor rule has been discussed a lot in theoretical and empirical studies. However, interest rates are quite low all over the world. Japan is no exception. Instead of traditional monetary policy based on interest rates, unconventional monetary policy based on money has been ongoing. This paper investigates whether the Taylor rule fits well in the recent Japanese case. With some other variables added to the Taylor rule along with price gap and output gap, the augmented Taylor rule is examined empirically. The empirical results show that the traditional Taylor rule is more appropriate than most augmented ones; however, exchange rate should be taken into account in determining monetary policy. Moreover, a more aggressive monetary policy from the latter part of the 2000s is needed.
R00|The Determinants of Bank Interest Margins: A Short-term Funding Perspective|The net interest margins (NIM) is one of the key metrics for Banks, and for those who want to evaluate the performance of a bank¡¯s investments. In this paper, the determinants of net interest margins of China¡¯s financial institutions are investigated, while taking into account the effects of short-term funding and the presence of foreign banks. By distinguishing different shareholding structure and comparing the banks¡¯ net interest margins before and after the banking liberalization, we find that both short-term funding and foreign bank presence have negative impacts on the net interest margins of Chinese domestic banks. The banking sector after the financial liberalization, especially the national wide banks, has better ability to manage the financial stress. The China Construction Banks(CCBs) and Credit Cooperatives suffer higher interest margin decline than State-Owned commercial Banks(SOBs) and Joint Stock Banks(JSBs). The national wide banks need to accelerate the business diversification and increase the intermediary revenue.
R00|Empirical Estimates of Okun¡¯s Law in Malta|This study presents various empirical estimates of Okun¡¯s Law in Malta for the period 2000-2016. A better understanding of Okun¡¯s relationship is important for the design of macroeconomic policies as well as for forecasting purposes. In Malta, the relationship between output and unemployment is relatively weak compared to other European countries. Among the demand components, unemployment is most sensitive to private consumption and exports. The relationship is also asymmetric, with the response of unemployment to output tending to be more pronounced during recessions. Stability tests suggest that Okun¡¯s relationship is not stable, although the link has become more pronounced in recent years, while the unemployment rate consistent with full employment has been on a downward trend. Estimates from an unobserved components model suggests that Okun¡¯s Law is quite robust at cyclical frequency, with potential time-variation in the relationship being ascribed to the trend components.
R00|Exchange Rate Volatility and Malawi¡¯s Tobacco Exports to The United Kingdom and The United States|The availability and sources of foreign currency in Malawi have become the subject of prominent policy debates in the country in the recent past. Malawi, which traditionally relies on agriculture and foreign aid for foreign currency earnings and balance of payments support, has experienced a shortage of foreign currency. It is against this background that this paper examined the relationship between the responsiveness of Malawi¡¯s tobacco exports to the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States of America (US) markets for the period between 1995 and 2011. The objectives of the study were to examine the impact of exchange rate volatility on Malawi¡¯s tobacco export earnings to the UK and the US and to determine and compare the volatility coefficients between the two export destinations. Based on the GARCH modelling, the paper found that exchange rate volatility in Malawi varies over time. When there is market disequilibrium in the long run relationship for both markets, there are differences in the rapidity of adjustments relating to the exchange rate volatility coefficient, but these are not significant. For example, the error correction term for tobacco exports to the US is -0.2389, while the error correction term for tobacco exports to the UK is -0.2341. This means that there is a relatively faster recovery in the disequilibrium for the tobacco exports to the US than that experienced for the UK market. Given these findings, it is important for researchers and policy makers to pursue appropriate exchange rate policies that will promote exchange rate volatility in Malawi, since the results show that exchange rate volatility has a positive effect on tobacco exports. Hence, the monetary authorities should pursue free and floating exchange rate policies to achieve exchange rate volatility. In addition, authorities should pay particular attention to the collusive behaviour of tobacco buyers, in order to avoid price fixing at the auctions.
R00|The Bank Lending Channel of Monetary Policy Transmission: A Dynamic Bank-level Panel Data Analysis on Tanzania|This study uses dynamic panel data estimation models, employing annual bank-level data spanning the period 2001-2011, to empirically investigate whether or not changes in the monetary policy in Tanzania influence bank lending behaviour, i.e., existence of a bank lending channel (BLC). It also examines the distributional effects of the monetary policy on banks with different balance sheet characteristics and ownership structures. The findings lend support to the hypotheses that, first: BLC operates in Tanzania, suggesting that bank loans are important channel through which monetary policy shocks are transmitted to the economy. The findings mirror the arguments that the banking sector still dominates the financial system in the country, whereas money, capital, and real estate markets are still at their infant stages. Banks account for about three-quarters of the financial sector¡¯s assets, reflecting their dominance of sources of funding. Meanwhile, about two-thirds of bank funding comes from private sector deposits, probably constraining banks in offsetting the decrease in funds from deposits by raising funds from other sources. Second, banks react asymmetrically to policy changes influenced by size, capital strength, and ownership structure. The lending channel is stronger through domestically-owned banks and privately-owned banks than it is with foreign-owned banks and public-owned banks. The reason is that, for foreign-owned banks, they could enhance their capital through raising of equity abroad and/or benefit from retained earnings; while for public-owned banks, it could be because they are not under pressure to make profit and, therefore, may opt not to cut-down their loans following a monetary policy shock. The policy implications are that, in assessing the stance of the monetary policy, beside short-term interest rates, it is critical for the monetary authority to trace banks reaction to monetary policy changes as reflected in loan supply to the private sector. Such investigation should also factor in possible asymmetric responses by banks influenced by size, capitalization, as well as ownership structure.
R00|Evaluating the Operational Efficiency of Life Insurance Companies in Taiwan¨C An Application of the Dynamic Network SBM Model|Using a Dynamic Network Slack-based Measurement model (Tone & Tsutsui, 2014), this study evaluated the operational efficiency of life insurance firms in Taiwan from 2006 to 2013. In contrast to previous research, we incorporated assets and liabilities management into the model and compared them against optimal efficiency values in order to determine whether firms are earning maximizing profit while ensuring long-term solvency. The life insurance industry in Taiwan has matured. We found that market competitiveness depends on firms size and business model. Financial holdings companies and large corporations are performing strongly, while small local firms and foreign-owned firms scored poorly in technical efficiency. Economies of scale contribute to the business performance of life insurance firms. Life insurance companies that had merged with or been acquired by financial holdings firms showed notable improvement in efficiency. However, change in term efficiency is a warning signal in long-term business performance of life insurance firms. Lastly, most companies achieved optimal carry-over efficiency, indicating that they place considerable emphasis on managing assets and liabilities in order to ensure future solvency.
R00|Finite Difference Schemes for Black-Scholes with Asian Option|Asian option is quite different from European option which can be exercised on the date of expiration, and not like the American option which exercised anytime during the period of contract. It is an unusual derivative that the option payoff depends on the average of a stock price or underlying asset over a certain period in the future. There are some demands from real world application. The attractive point is that Asian option is cheaper than the other options to hedge the similar risk. In addition, some investors need security which can protect them from the volatility and risk from the market, at the same time, the average option can provide an investor with a greater level of flexibility to make a deal. This paper focus on the point that using Finite-difference method to solve the Black-Scholes partial differential equation for the Asian Option valuation problem.
R00|The Relationship between Ownership Structure and the Probability of a Financial Distress Warning Happening: Evidence of Listed Common Stock Companies in Taiwan|This paper discusses about the ownership structure of firms and the probability of a financial distress warning happening in Taiwan. Our sample covers all listed common stock companiesexceptthe financial industry from 2006 to 2014. This study usesthe Z-score to measure the probability of firms¡¯ financial distress warning happening and employs the shareholding ratio of managerial share ownership, the shareholding ratio of financial institutional investors, and the size of the board of directors to measure firms¡¯ ownership structure. For our results, the shareholding ratio of managerial share ownership has positive relationship with the probability of a financial distress warning happening, while the shareholding ratio of institutional investors and the size of the board of directors have a negative relationship with the probability of the same warning happening.
R00|Attention to Risk and Return: Choice Experiment of the Stated and Inferred Use of Investment Attributes|This paper applies a choice experiment method to analyze investors¡¯ attention to investment attributes. Prior research mainly in environmental, agricultural, and transport economics has observed that people actually use different attributes than which they say in choice experiment tasks. This research examines do people pay attention to all the given investment attributes, and if they do not, whether the self-reported attribute attendance corresponds to the behavior inferred from the choices. The experiment is conducted among a pool of 845 financially literate subjects, which enables a study of the factors affecting the investment decisions of informed individuals. The choice experiment puts the subjects in a decision making situation in which they are presented with hypothetical investment opportonities in the agricultural and food production sector. The investments are described with four attributes: voting right, return right, capital appreciation, and expect return. We use the equality-constrained latent class (ECLC) method to infer the choice patterns.The comparison of the stated attribute attendance patterns to the inferred attribute non-attendance patterns shows that the investors are prone to overstate the importance of expected return in their choices. The result indicates that individuals may not be fully aware of the factors affecting their investment decisions. Finding such behavioral bias among financial professionals implies that financially less knowledgeable people may be even more prone to uninformed investment decisions, be for example lured by the marketing of financial products with high returns.
R00|Nanoeconomics: A Statistical Model of Company Profit Influenced by Individual Interests of Managers|A concept and mathematical model of modern economics are formulated in which a company profit is defined when taking into account possible interests of individual decision makers rather than based exclusively on benefits of either the company (ground of microeconomics) or the whole society (ground of macroeconomics). We call this approach ¡°nanoeconomics¡± as a terminological step down from macro- and micro- economics. The growing gap between interests of the business owner and decision makers in large corporations is obviously detrimental for the company performance. Here we formulate a statistical model to describe this situation quantitatively. In this model, the company profit is an accumulative effect of statistical contributions of a variety of decisions of individual decision-makers, rather than looking at the company as a whole (microeconomics). The model demonstrates the decrease of profit of the company compared to the microeconomic estimation. We study a relative contribution to the profit decrease from different human factors considered in the model, ¡°careerism¡± and ¡°expertise¡± of the decision-making managers, their ¡°loyalty¡± to the company, and the lack of strong company management (¡°decentralization¡±).
R00|Accommodating Different Learning Styles in the Teaching of Economics: with Emphasis on Fleming and Mills¡¯s Sensory-based Learning Style Typology|Students prefer to learn in different ways. These learning preferences are commonly known as learning styles. This variety in learning styles among students suggests that instructors should teach their course materials in different ways to cater to different learning styles. In addition, according to (Nilson 2010), when our society is concerned with fairness and equality, teaching to different styles is a main facet of equity. This paper focuses on Fleming and Mill¡¯s VARK model (1992) to describe students¡¯ different learning styles and explain why and in what ways economics instructors can accommodate different learning styles in their teaching. More specifically, the present paper aims to examine different learning styles and introduce teaching tools for accommodating different learning styles in the context of teaching economics. In addition to identifying learning-style-specific teaching instruments for the teaching of economics, the paper provides some prominent examples of each in the literature of economic education. Finally, considering recent advancements and availability of various technologies, existing evidence, general growing consensus on the issue, and many other reasons mentioned throughout the paper, it is argued and suggested that it makes more sense to take a multimodal approach to the teaching of economics.
R00|Adoption and Use of Information Communication Technologies in Zimbabwean Supermarkets|The use of computers and technology has become vital for any organisation to survive in this digital era. The adoption and use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in supermarkets has been accepted, particularly, in developed countries. However, there has been little information on the adoption and use of ICTs in supermarkets in Zimbabwe as a whole. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to explore the rate of adoption and use of ICTs in Zimbabwean supermarkets and to measure their impact. The study also sought to suggest measures that supermarkets could take in an effort to overcome the challenges faced in the use of ICTs in grocery shopping in Zimbabwe. The results were interpreted using the Keynesian Theory of Money and they revealed that all supermarkets had adopted Point of Sale (POS) and few of them had adopted mobile money. The majority of the customers however still preferred to transact using cash. The study also showed that the greatest benefits of online transactions were convenience, high customer retention, and increased efficiency whereas the greatest challenges were network connection problems and poor adoption by customers. The study urged customers to adopt and use online ICTs in supermarkets in order to take advantage of their benefits. The study also recommended supermarkets and the government to take heed of the measures suggested by the respondents in order to avert the adverse consequences of the challenges faced in the use of ICTs.
R00|The Relation of Fiscal Decentralization, Regional Finance and Social Justice for the Local Development of Indonesia|This study aims to analyze the relationship between fiscal decentralization, fiscal capacity, financial independence and financial expenditure areas in achieving social justice. In this case, the East Java Province Indonesia is supported by the existence of local government district / municipality became the main object of study during 2010 -2014. The needed data are such as; financial balance data, regional revenue, the amount of local spending and social justice data on people's lives. Data analysis method used is Partial Least Square (PLS). The results provide the conclusion that the implementation of the fiscal decentralization policy gives positive and significant impact on local fiscal capacity. Fiscal capacity gives positive and significant impact on the local financial independence. Local financial independence gives positive and significant impact on the structure of the shopping area. The structure of local government spending has a significant effect on the achievement of social justice areas. In this case, the fiscal capacity and financial independence have no direct impact significantly on the achievement of social justice in the various districts / cities in East Java. In addition, this study also provides important conclusion that there is a significant indirect effect of fiscal decentralization on social justice through local fiscal capacity, local financial independence and the structure of local government spending.
R00|Simulation and Calibration of Options Prices under a Levy-Type Stochastic Dynamic and Semi Markov Market Switching Regimes Processes|This work mainly highlights the benefits of derivative pricing in a semi Markov switching market. We explore the main differences between Markov and Semi Markov regime switching models. The three main problems we deal with are, (1) historical parameter calibration through the recently developed LLGMM method, (2) effects of semi Markov parameters on option prices and (3) comparison of Heston model, semi Markov regime model and Markov regime model calibration performances over both sequential option price calibration and the overall implied volatility surface of the market. Employing the LLGMM method, parameters of the spot price process described by a linear Levy-type stochastic differential equation under semi-Markov structural perturbations are calibrated to observed prices. From Fourier space time stepping and Carr and Madan methods, risk neutral parameters of the spot price are calibrated and interpreted. American and European style vanilla and exotic option prices are simulated. The presented results are shown in the context of a piecewise constant semi-Markov intensity matrix approximating a Weibull intensity matrix. We obtain that under the conditional minimum entropy martingale measure, option prices predictably increase as the regime risk increases through the intensity matrix of the semi Markov process. Calibration and simulation results demonstrate noticeable effects of semi-Markov parameters on option prices and a demonstrably better calibration fit of the Black Scholes model over the entire volatility surface, in a market with semi Markov regimes.
R00|Stock Market Integration in China: Evidence from the Asymmetric DCC Model and Copula Approach|We investigate the dynamic dependence structure between the daily stock returns of the A and B shares of the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets in China, using time-varying conditional copula and asymmetric dynamic conditional correlation models. We find that the Shanghai market¡¯s A and B shares are more integrated than those of the Shenzhen market. Further, the dynamic dependences between the shares for both markets are asymmetric and lower-tailed, and an increasing correlation with the opening up of the B shares market to Chinese citizens around 2001 is evident.
R00|An Examination of the Merchandise Imports Demand Function for Egypt|Merchandise imports in Egypt is growing steadily and very rapidly, at an average growth rate of 10.64 percent/year during 1970-2014. So, this study is very important to know the merchandise imports determinants in Egyptian economy. This study empirically estimates the critical parameters of merchandise import demand determinants for Egypt by using Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) approach and Error Correction model during the period (1970-2014). The empirical results confirm that, in both long run and short run, there is positive and significant relationship between the demand for merchandise imports and real gross domestic product, but there is a negative and significant relationship between the demand of merchandise imports and real effective exchange rate. On the other hand, in the long run, there are positive and significant relationships between the demand for merchandise imports and both of inflation and international reserves but insignificant relationships in the short run.
R00|The Effect of Fixed Exchange Rates on Monetary Policy of the GCC Countries|The GCC member countries have maintained fixed exchange rates against the US dollar for a long time now. These countries also allow liberal cross-border capital movements. Given these arrangements, they have theoretically given up the monetary independence according to the trilemma stating that countries with fixed exchange rates cannot pursue both domestic monetary independence and free capital mobility. This paper tests trilemma for the GCC member countries excluding Saudi Arabia and the UAE due to the unavailability of the pertinent interest rates data from these countries. Using the most recent quarterly data for the period 2004 to 2015, the general finding is that these countries still have some monetary independence. Results for Qatar indicate that they can maintain a full monetary autonomy if the circumstances make them to do so.
R00|Does Perception of Business Climate Differ Between Foreign and Local Investors. A Firm-level Study of Transition Economies in Eastern Europe and Central Asia|Difference between foreign and local investors in their respective assessments of business climate constraints has not yet been given much attention in research literature. Drawing on institutional theory and the concept of liability of foreignness (LoF), the study contributes towards filling this gap in the context of business climate variables faced by foreign firms operating in transition economies. The Mann-Whitney U Test is applied to firm-level data of 30 transition economies in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. We found that foreign investors experience less trouble with access to finance, tax rate and competition towards the informal sector compared with domestic firms. Conversely, such variables as courts, custom and trade regulations, inadequate workforce, and labor regulations disturbed foreign investors more than local companies. LoF appears as a balanced outcome of firm-specific advantages, possessed by foreign investors, and location and institutional advantages, utilized by the local companies. The results point towards important possible synergies in enhancing the business climate in transition economies by policy-makers, and to potential conflict between policy reforms accommodating the interests of foreign capital against those of domestic firms.
R00|A Volatility Analysis of Agricultural Commodity and Crude Oil Global Markets|The purpose of this study is to provide insights on volatility features of major agricultural commodity global markets. In order to achieve this, we estimate the volatility in the global markets of crude oil and four main agricultural commodities, namely rice, wheat, cotton and coffee over the period 1980:2014. We also investigate the nexus between the volatilities in these global markets. More precisely, we first model the volatility of agricultural commodity and crude oil markets based on the GARCH methodology. Second, we assess the risk in these global markets by the Value-at-Risk technique. Finally, we evaluate the co-movements between returns in agricultural commodity and crude oil markets by the copula methodology. Our empirical findings reveal that, unlike in the financial market, upside shocks in the agricultural market tend to increase volatility more than downside shocks do. In addition to that, risk in global agricultural commodity markets turned out to be high and little evidence in favor of interdependence between these markets is found. Moreover, the co-movement between agricultural commodity market risk and oil prices is detected for recent years only and little evidence is found for the whole sample period.
R00|High Quality Liquid Suk¨±k: Relevance, Practice, and Empirical Research in the Context of Rising Global Interest Rates|Liquidity management has always been a major issue in Islamic banking. In the early years of the industry, a major problem was a general tendency toward excess liquidity. In the future, the main issue in the context of depressed oil prices, a rising global interest-rate environment, and a tightened regulatory landscape under Basel III is likely to be a relative scarcity of high quality liquid assets (HQLA), or high quality liquid suk¨±k (Note 1). The incoming U.S. Treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin has already indicated that the Trump administration¡¯s plans could rapidly turbocharge the U.S. economy, thereby altering the prevailing low-interest rate dynamic at the U.S. Federal Reserve (¡°U.S. Fed¡±), leading many to anticipate higher interest rates (Wigglesworth & Moore, 2016). Among the available liquidity management instruments in Islamic banking, only suk¨±k of a particular type meet the requirements of HQLA (in principle) as defined by the Basel Committee and adapted for Islamic finance by the IFSB (Islamic Financial Services Board). Candidates for HQLA are only international suk¨±k, i.e. suk¨±k that are issued in an international currency, listed, and traded not only locally but also internationally. Sovereigns and international institutions such as the IDB have issued almost all sukuk of this caliber. In this paper, we will make empirically informed qualitative projections on the outlook for HQL (high quality liquid) suk¨±k in the context of a rising global interest-rate environment.
R00|Value Creation Concept In Stakeholder and Shareholder Economies|In the financial theory it is common to make distinction between two types of corporate value creation concept: shareholder value and stakeholder value. In shareholder systems, also known as Anglo-American concept, institutional investors, who usually own small percentages of companies' shares, exert significant influence over managers. In major stakeholder systems, marked as Continental concept, influence is shared between large shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers. The aim of this paper is to analyze influence of globalization processes and economic crises on value creation theory and practice.
R00|The Effect of Urbanization and Economic Performance on Metropolitan Water Consumption: Theoretic Model and Evidence from Guangzhou of China|This paper examines the effect of urbanization and economic performance on metropolitan water consumption in Guangzhou of China. We develop social and individual optimal models to reveal the impact of urbanization and economic performance on metropolitan water consumption. Based on aggregated annual data from 1949 to 2014, the empirical results from OLS and ARDL suggest that previous water consumption per capita, urbanization and GDP per capita each play vital roles impacting metropolitan water consumption per capita in Guangzhou.
R00|Information Technology Oriented Entrepreneurial Ventures|This paper aims to identify the importance of Information Technology businesses and youth¡¯s interest in entrepreneurial initiatives in connection with IT based businesses. The data was collected using questionnaire from final year students of entrepreneurship and computer sciences enrolled in Bachelors, so as to get a profound picture of their intention, motivation and ability to enter in IT related entrepreneurial ventures. As descriptive statistics was used to analyze the findings, the study depicts great motivation among final year graduates to enter in entrepreneurial ventures. They are found to be motivated to establish ventures of their own even at small level. Therefore, SMEs can play vital role in assisting and fostering entrepreneurial activity with special focus on Information Technology businesses. In addition, the research limitation could be the fact that data has been collected from top universities/ institutes in which intellect level of students is competitively high, thus their liking to entre and understanding regarding SMEs and entrepreneurial initiatives is better than students of ordinary institutes. Also, the results could have been deviated if same research was applied in countries with varying demographics. As for Practical Implementations the research may be vital for SMEs officials to foresee the entrepreneurial spirit among youth and to design policies accordingly. Also, it opens horizons for information Technology students to consider entrepreneurial careers other than simply applying for jobs in software houses/ organizations. Also, no prior research has been carried out in analyzing the mutual relation of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology businesses, neither the outcome/ joint effect of both has been studied together.
R00|Research on Strategies of Stock Index Futures Transaction Based on LMS Linear Regression|In recent years, stock index futures has developed into an important financial derivative in the global capital market and provided an indispensable investment and hedging tool for investors. This paper is mainly studying the low frequency transaction of stock index futures. Firstly, it conducts data cleaning to the stock index futures data and has an interpolation calculation to the missing values. Afterwards, it judges the market information in the short period and achieves the purpose of gaining profits through the basis. Furthermore, the time and the price difference are used as the key factors for establishing the quantitative model of gaining profits. Through lease square regression and inventory analysis technology, it completes the whole transaction process with several actions such as judging the open position time, transaction direction, reverse position closing time and yield accounting. Finally, as to the regression testing of the model, it detects the expression of the strategy through annual earnings, maximum drawback, transaction frequency, Sharpe ratio, variety commonality and cycle commonality. In the end, it conducts scientific analysis to the approaches used in the model and discusses the advantages and disadvantages of the model, thus providing some optimizing strategies in considering the improvement direction in practical application.
R00|Informal Finance and Asymmetric Information: A Theory Review|Based on theories of financial inhibition and Transaction Cost Theories, along with the combination of behavior economics, this paper tries to discuss and analyze the nature of informal finance. In china, it is hard to finance for Mid-small business, informal finance has advantage to deal with the capital gap of Mid-small size business as a supplementary means of formal finance which are hard to overcome the problem of adverse selection and moral hazard induced by asymmetric information. we discussed the foundation for existing of informal finance and objective necessity. Based on perspective of asymmetric information, we tried to answer why informal finance still thrived vibrantly on the process of financial deepening.
R00|Reasserting Monetary Policy: Sumner¡¯s Nominal GDP Targeting and Beyond|Sumner¡¯s (2016) article in Foreign Affairs reasserts the potential of monetary policy to influence economic conditions ¨C following years of suboptimal growth in the US and elsewhere and an unraveling of consensus about central bank practice. This review provides theoretical and economic history context. From the 1960s onward, consideration of money quantity variables was prominent in monetary policy discussion. By the 1990s, central bankers had transferred focus to interest rate or inflation targeting, and sometimes to a combination of the two. Central bankers have proved effective at meeting, or approaching, inflation objectives ¨C and doing so helps to stabilize market expectations for what the future price level will be. Sumner argues that if central bankers can stabilize inflation expectations, then they could also meet nominal GDP (NGDP) targets ¨C and thereby stabilize expectations regarding future growth, unemployment, and interest rates. Also, NGDP targeting is counter-cyclical in its essence. The depth and length of the Great Recession were largely a result of contractionary monetary conditions from the third quarter of 2008 onward. But financial crises, including in that of 2007-2008 in the US, can trigger or contribute to downturns. NGDP trends are not a good predictor of such crises, which often have origins in compromised capital structure. A further limitation is that NGDP targeting emphasizes internal balance (domestic prices and employment) almost to the exclusion of external stability as an aim of monetary policy. Even if the primary goal remains internal balance, data from foreign exchange markets and from non-domestic price changes provide important information about the stance of monetary policy.
R00|Estimating Elasticity Function of Jordanian Aggregate Import Demand|This article estimates aggregate import demand function for Jordan using three fully co-integrating regressions over the (1980-2015) period. The bounds testing approach has been employed to test co-integration, while ARDL approach is used to analyze long-run elasticities. The results show a co-integration phenomenon among variables when import volume is dependent variable. In addition, the estimated long-run elasticities of import demand with respect to income and relative prices are 1.16 and -1.03, respectively. The understanding of import demand behavior is crucial for significant import forecasts, international trade planning, and exchange rate policy design.
R00|The Effect of Implementing a Feed-in Tariff in Abu Dhabi UAE|Although most countries in the world have been trying to introduce renewable energy into their power supplies to address issues related to the environment and energy security, the Middle East has the lowest overall renewable energy capacity in the world. However, there is currently a trend of accelerating renewable energy deployment with increased investment in the region for the purposes of improving energy security and independence and promoting long-term social and economic benefits. This study aims to examine the impact of implementing a feed-in tariff (FiT) in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. After a simulated test, it was found that the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) and the current average unit cost of electricity were considerably divergent. That is to say, a large extra cost is incurred in order to deploy renewable energy in Abu Dhabi. In this context, the effectiveness of implementing a FiT in Abu Dhabi is confirmed. Furthermore, an estimation of the size of the renewable energy surcharge indicated that the impact of implementing a FiT would be enormous. For example, if the target rate of deploying renewable energy is set at 7%, a renewable energy surcharge equivalent to approximately one third of the total turnover of the electricity sector should be additionally imposed. It follows that the electricity rate will be raised by about thirty percent on average, unless subsidies are provided by the government.
R00|Sport Sentiments and Stock Returns: Example of FIFA World Cups|This paper investigates the relation between sport sentiments and excess stock returns, and our data is from the 17th to 20th FIFA World Cups. Many studies find the relation between sport sentiments and stock market returns. In contrast to the previous studies, this paper considers seven conditions: (1) Considering stock markets are efficient markets, this paper uses not only close price but also open price to estimate excess stock returns which is affected by game results; (2) This paper further considers that sport sentiments affect sponsors¡¯ excess stock returns (this point is seldom discussed by the past literature); (3) This paper further considers a time-lagged effect between sport sentiments and excess stock returns. (4) This paper further considers the persistent effect of previous games result. (5) This paper further employs the samples by not only for all participant countries but also for the each of participant countries. (6) This paper further considers the conditions of extreme wins and extreme loses. (7) This paper further considers the samples of championship games to exam the relation between sport sentiments and excess stock returns. Our results find that sport sentiments does not affect stock market returns, the reason is that investors are rational in dealing with sport sentiments (FIFA World Cup) and the stock trading decisions. This paper further finds Sponsors effect hypothesis: A significant positive/ negative effect on sponsors¡¯ excess stock returns after wins/ loses in the championship games, and this effect only occurs on the open price of the next trading day. These empirical results can offer an important information for the investors of sport sponsor stocks.
R00|Ownership Structure and Firm Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Chinese Companies|This study examines the relationship between ownership structure and firm performance in Chinese companies. We hand collected ownership data on 1178 non-financial companies with a total of 5815 firm-years from annual reports. Through fixed-effect panel model, this study has the following findings. First, there is a positive relationship between firm performance and institutional ownership in Chinese companies. Second, the proportion of tradable shares negatively affects firm performance. Third, ownership concentration and state ownership appear to not affect firm performance.
R00|Empirical Evidence on the Impact of City Taxes|An important issue is whether cities can influence their own economic growths through municipal-level tax policy. There is little evidence on this to date, nor is there a clear a priori answer to this question. This study first documents municipal business tax rates across the United States, and finds they are a relatively significant cost to business. Next, using very a unique and precise government data set, the study examines the economic impacts of two previous tax cuts in Los Angeles and finds that these cuts generally resulted in growth in both the number of jobs and establishments.
R00|Deficit Policy within the Framework of the Stability and Growth Pact: An Empirical Analysis|It has become common to criticize Germany and France for having broken the Stability and Growth Pact in 2003, supposedly giving way for higher deficits thereafter. However, this question has not yet been answered by the economic literature. It is closely related to the issue whether the Stability and Growth Pact had any disciplining effect on European Monetary Union member countries or not. This article examines the question whether joining the European Monetary Union or the breach of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2003 had an impact on deficits of member states. The empirical analysis shows no evidence for higher deficits after having joined the Eurozone or after having breached the Pact in 2003. These results are robust to different testing methods and when using different data samples. They can be explained with the fact that the Pact was undermined from its beginning and only had a limited disciplining effect henceforth. Otherwise the breakout of the ongoing debt crisis would hardly have been possible.
R00|Bank Lending Channel in Transmission of Monetary Policy in Japan, 2000¨C2012: The Sign Restrictions VAR Approach|This paper investigates empirically whether the bank lending channel of monetary policy existed in Japan from 2000 to 2012. We employ the sign restrictions VAR approach to deal with the identification problem. In particular, we focus on the differential effects of a quantitative easing monetary policy regardless of bank (City banks vs. Regional banks) and firm (all enterprises vs. small and medium-sized enterprises£­SMEs) size. Our impulse response function analyses show that following a quantitative easing monetary policy shock, the lending of Regional banks increases more than that of City banks, and the bank lending rate of Regional banks declines in a larger magnitude. Moreover, the responses of output to reserve supply are larger in Regional banks than that in City banks. Our variance decomposition analyses show that a larger proportion of the forecast error variance in the bank lending of Regional banks relative to City banks, and a larger proportion of the forecast error variance in the bank lending to SMEs relative to all firms can be explained by monetary policy shock. Similarly, the loans of Regional banks have a larger impact on output than the loans of City banks, and the loans to SMEs have a larger impact on output than the loans to all firms. Moreover, output is more affected by the reserve supply to Regional banks than to City banks. These results together indicate that a quantitative easing policy has a greater impact on the real economy through the lending of Regional banks.
R00|Integration of Financial Markets: A Study of Egypt and Palestine Stock Markets|The objective of this study is to determine the existence of equilibrium and dynamic relations between Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) and Palestine Stock Exchange (PEX). Utilising the framework of international trade theories, this paper employs the Engle-Granger Co-integration (1987) procedure as an estimation model on monthly time series data from February 1998 to April 2012. Results indicate that there is a significant equilibrium nexus between EGX and PEX but no empirical evidence was found on the existence of dynamic relations between them via Granger Causality tests. However, analysis of dynamic interactions of the post-sample period by means of Impulse-Response Functions and Variance Decomposition indicate sensitivity in EGX towards changes in PEX.
R00|Trade Agreements and Services Value Chain: The Case of India and Thailand|Services sector is an important component of the world trade and production networks. With the opening up of world economy, the role of services in the global value chain and value added has expanded. Services liberalisation is becoming a crucial component of free trade agreements. This is particularly true for trade agreements between South and Southeast Asia. Given this background, the objective of this paper is to understand the scope of establishing services value chain between two countries in South and Southeast Asia - namely India and Thailand - by integrating the two markets through trade agreement. The analysis is based on secondary data, in-depth interviews with policy makers and stakeholders in India and Thailand and an examination of the existing trade agreements of the two countries. The paper found that the present level of integration between the two markets is low due to the existence of market access barriers and regulatory bottlenecks. The paper makes recommendation on how the two countries can reduce barriers to trade in services, thereby fostering greater integration and leveraging the development of a global value chain.
R00|Econometric Model to Estimate Defaults on Payment in the Spanish Financial Sector in Oliver Wyman¡¯s Stress Tests|This work develops an econometric model based on the exogenous economic variables used in Oliver Wyman¡äs report. In this case the model is used in order to estimate late payments (NPLs) by Spanish credit entities. A model based on variables considered to be optimal to quantify impact on the NPLs is developed by studying the aforementioned variables, modifying them and eliminating any which are superfluous. Furthermore, whether or not the model is optimal for long periods of time is corroborated. This is due to the fact that the scenario in Oliver Wyman¡äs report from September 2012 (Wyman 2012) is based on 30 years of Spanish economical historical data, as stated in the report itself. The results indicate the variables that have impact on defaults. The increase in housing prices, the Madrid Stock Exchange Index, the Exchange Rate the euro against USD. The Euribor 12 months and the industries Credit to other residents, decreases the delinquency. The NPLs also fell by transfers from riskier assets to SAREB. However, these results are different if the economy is growing or in recession. So the results will not be optimal but the appropriate model is employed.
R00|Impact of Foreign Direct Investment (Fdi) On the Stock Market Performances in Nigeria (1985-2014)|The study examined the impact of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) on the stock market performances in Nigeria, from 1985 ¨C 2014. The secondary data used were collected from IMF, International Financial Statistics (2015), CBN Statistical Books (2015). Multiple regression of least square estimation was the tool used to analyze the data in this study. In the model, the FDI was regressed on RGDP, Consumer Price Index, Real effective exchange rate, Money supply (M2), Share price index, Treasury bill, Nigerian stock exchange transactions. The study revealed that FDI has an insignificant and negative impact on the economy and the macroeconomic variables that determine the performances of the Nigerian stock market. The paper therefore recommends policies that would encourage foreign firms operating in the oil and gas including the telecommunication and agricultural sectors to be listed since it would go a long way in attracting more FDI, leading to improvement in the stock market performances.
R00|A Class Discussion Project for Investment Management and Business Strategy|This paper presents an instructor¡¯s guide for a class discussion of a notable lecture on stock selection and business strategy by a successful investor and businessman.
R00|Investigating the Relationship between the Social and Economic-financial Performance|Hundreds of studies have explored and measured financial returns related to social performance (Margolis and Walsh, 2003), with controversial results. In addition to these studies¡¯ outcomes, we found, in this body of literature, a lot of innovation in the integration and adaptation of financial analysis tools and models to the study of statistical relationships. In this paper, we investigate the relationship between corporate social performance and corporate financial (and economic) performance, using multiple measures of financial and social performance and by looking statistically at the movement of actual financial and social performance over time. We emphasize the worth of statistical analysis in traditional financial representations. Our findings show how ratio analysis and statistical cause-and-effect validation are not alternatives for developing the financial analysis of sustainability and reporting. We show, through constant testing and a double learning process, the critical relationship between the key factors of financial, economic and social performance.
R00|Analytic Procedures: A Holdback-vetting Forecasting Model|Introduction, Forecasting is now a best practices requirement for PCAOB audits. This is clear from AS 5 where Analytic Procedures are now a part of the Planning and Substantive Phases of the certification audits. In this regard, we are encouraged by the ¡°On the Go Stores¡± AP case offered by the AICPA, and have extended their case illustration of AP treatments. Study Pr¨¦cis, In our presentation, we initially consider the OLS Regression model utilized in the AICPA case and offer a vetting protocol to rationalize the use of this forecasting model in the AP phases. Then we move to a disposition analysis stage where the forecast information is posed in relief to the actual client value so as to ascertain if Extended Procedure investigations would be warranted. Results, We offer three Confidence Intervals drawn from the OLS modeling system that are formed from the Fixed Effect, Random Effects, and finally the Excel Platform for the 95% CI parameter set. Impact, The protocol set is programmed in an open-access VBA Decision Support System which is available free as a download with no restriction on its use.
R00|Factor Analysis Aspects of the Enterprise¡¯s Operating Leverage|The aim of the research is to selection general coefficient of operating leverage of enterprise and to great factor model of this. The subject of the research is operating risk of enterprise. Accordingly had study coefficients operating leverage, the fixed and variable costs, the conception of marginal profit and break-even points. Had mace comparative analysis of well-known coefficients of enterprise operating leverage in the article. Here are discussed relationship between coefficients of Operating Leverage, Marginal Profit, Break-even point, the production Margin of Safety and structure of costs. Generally accepted methods of analysis are used in the paper, such as analysis and synthesis, induction and deduction, quantitative and qualitative analysis methods, traditional analysis methods. Results of research had proofed that fixed costs and operating profit ratio can be recognition with General Coefficient of Operating Leverage of enterprise. Had great four-factors model of this indicator too, whose practical use will help the management of enterprises to explore positive and negative factors through the traditional analytical methods and to the adequate decisions will making.
R00|Firm Characteristics and Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Listed Financial Services Companies in Nigeria|This study investigated the level of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by listed financial services companies in Nigeria, and the effect firm characteristics have on the level of compliance. The study also examined whether compliance with IFRS significantly differs between listed Deposit Money Banks (DMB) and Insurance Companies (INC) in Nigeria. Secondary data used for the study were extracted from the annual report and accounts of the sampled firms and analyzed using the multiple regression technique and Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test for two independent samples. The study found that (i) the level of compliance with IFRS by the sampled firms is high (about 85.9%); (ii) profitability is positive and significantly associated with IFRS at 10% level; (iii) firm size and auditor type are positive but insignificantly associated with IFRS compliance; and (iv) leverage and internationality are negative and insignificantly associated with IFRS compliance. Furthermore, the study found that compliance with IFRS by DMB is higher than INC but the difference is not statistically significant. The major conclusion reached in this study was that compliance with IFRS by listed financial services companies in Nigeria is not driven by firm attributes. The study recommended that adequate steps be taken by regulatory authorities such as the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) of Nigeria to ensure full compliance with the mandatory disclosure requirements of IFRS by listed firms in Nigeria.
R00|Analysis of Written English: The Case of Female University Students in Saudi Arabia|This research sheds some light on the difficulties faced by Saudi students when writing in the English language by examining specific writing errors committed by the students. Fifty female students in their fourth year of study at the University of Tabuk in the department of languages and translation who were enrolled in the subject of error analysis (a kind of linguistic analysis that emphasizes the errors learners make in a target language) were given a quiz to write approximately one page about each one of three topics: effects of social media on Saudi social life, Saudi marriage customs, and Saudi economy. The quiz was graded and the writing errors were classified into four main categories: grammatical, syntactic, substance, and lexical types following Hubbard et al. (1996) classifications of errors. Then, the number of errors in each category was counted and the corresponding frequency was calculated. The findings of this study show that most frequent types of errors made by the students were in the categories of grammar (tenses, singular/plural, articles), syntax (subject-verb agreement), and substance (spelling).
R00|Reaffirming Individual Responsibility in Distributive Justice: A Case Study of the Chinese Healthcare System|The human rights-based approach is widely employed in achieving distributive justice in health care. In the light of a common understanding of the approach, protecting the right to health as a human right relies heavily on addressing state accountability. However, the corresponding measures are put forward unevenly on the national level and generally achieve less than expected. Deficiencies, such as inefficient utilization and the free-rider problem, are increasingly obvious along with the aging population. In the context of the Chinese healthcare system, the paper suggests that drawing attention to the importance of individual responsibility is beneficial to improve the performance of the human rights-based approach in reforming healthcare systems towards more justice. Furthermore, raising the issue of individual responsibility can help to achieve equilibrium between the protection of individual rights and the sustainability of the healthcare system.
R00|The President's Role on National Security Policies - the Case of Kosovo|"The institution of the President in the Republic of Kosovo represents a new political and constitutional institution, as is the Republic itself. As such, he is still untested against constitutional responsibilities with which he is charged by the country's constitutions. Moreover, the President has not yet been tested on the security crisis management, as in reality he still cannot exercise all of his powers as Head of State and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, as these competencies for now are being exercised by the political and military structures of the North Atlantic Treaty (NATO). However, in a constitutional and legal sense, the President of Kosovo enjoys all the powers for the realization of his constitutional role as a ""representative of the unity of the people and guarantor of the democratic functioning of the institutions of the country'' and also as Commander of the Armed Forces with executive powers. Once the competences of the President in the authority of foreign policy are added then he appears to be one of the most powerful presidents, as compared with the presidents of parliamentary republics. It is exactly the powers of the President on national security issues that will be the topic of treatment in this paper, through an analysis not only the issues that are completely of the defense and security character, but also authorities dealing with other issues that can be used on behalf or in the name of national security."
R00|Role of Professional Women in Conflict Resolution and Peace Building in Niger Delta Region of Nigeria|Oil and gas activities in Southern part of Nigeria have exposed the region to environmental degradation and social vices. This problem has caused conflicts among stakeholders (government, community, companies, institutions, individuals), which has led to community clashes. These conflicts have resulted to the loss of lives and properties. They are also responsible for youth restiveness, low level of women empowerment and lack of peaceful coexistence in the region. This makes the promotion of understanding and dialogue to be a prime issue in the management of conflict, community peace and security. Professional women belong to professional bodies that spread into all works of life; academia, government, industry, legal institution, health sector, financial institutions, NGOs, security sector. This paper discussed issues on causes of conflict in Niger Delta, what roles should professional women play in attaining peace, global examples of professional women in conflict resolution, role of professional women in Niger Delta, way in which women engage in conflict resolution and challenges women face in conflict resolution and peace building. The paper concluded that time has come for everybody to be aware of gender equality and involvement in conflict resolution and peace building. Professional women need to intensify effort in achieving this.
