R21|Household Portfolio Choice Before and After a House Purchase|We document the temporal patterns of the household portfolio choice over a 7-year period around a house purchase, using unique administrative panel data from Denmark. We find that (i) households accumulate considerably more liquid wealth in a few years before the purchase of a house and draw down liquid wealth at the year of purchase; (ii) the equity market participation rate drops during the year of the house purchase; and (iii) conditional on participation, the risky asset share of liquid wealth decreases and reaches the lowest point 1 year before a house purchase but jumps up immediately after. These findings suggest that of the three channels identified in the literature that affect the risky asset demand after a house purchase, the diversification effect and the debt retirement channel dominate the liquidity demand. Liquidity demand, however, has a larger effect on the portfolio choice for poorer households after a house purchase.
R21|Disentangling the Factors Driving Housing Resales|We use a recently developed model and loan-level micro data to decompose movements in housing resales since 2015. We find that fundamental factors, namely housing affordability and full-time employment, have had offsetting effects on resales over our study period. Recent mortgage rule changes have likely contributed to slower resale activity in Canada, but their impact is estimated to be relatively small. Thus, much of the variation in resales since 2015 reflects deviations from long-run fundamentals, most notably in British Columbia and Ontario. We show that the deviations from fundamentals in these provinces are strongly correlated with house price expectations, which rose rapidly in 2016 but then retreated following provincial housing policy changes.
R21|Démêler les facteurs qui influencent les reventes de logements|Nous utilisons un modèle élaboré récemment et des microdonnées sur les prêts individuels pour décomposer les mouvements sur le marché de la revente depuis 2015. Nous constatons que les facteurs fondamentaux, notamment l’accessibilité au logement et l’emploi à temps plein, ont fait contrepoids aux ventes de maisons existantes pendant la période visée par notre étude. Les modifications apportées récemment aux règles hypothécaires ont vraisemblablement contribué à ralentir l’activité de revente au Canada, mais nous estimons que leur incidence a été relativement faible. Ainsi, les variations des reventes depuis 2015 reflètent surtout des écarts par rapport aux fondamentaux de long terme, principalement en Colombie-Britannique et en Ontario. Nous montrons que les écarts dans ces provinces présentent une forte corrélation avec les attentes à l’égard des prix des logements, qui ont crû rapidement en 2016 puis diminué compte tenu des nouvelles orientations des politiques provinciales du logement.
R21|The Formation of House Price Expectations in Canada: Evidence from a Randomized Information Experiment|We conduct a randomized information experiment leveraging the Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations. We provide causal evidence that respondents revise both their short and medium term expectations of future house price growth in a way that is consistent with observed short-term momentum in house prices. However, empirically, house price growth tends to revert to its mean in the medium term.
R21|Non-Resident Taxes and the Role of House Price Expectations|In recent years, the governments of Ontario and British Columbia have imposed taxes on purchases by non-Canadian residents of residential properties in certain jurisdictions. The outsized decline in housing resales observed after these taxes were implemented suggests that the taxes altered residents’ housing market expectations. Using data from the Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations (CSCE), we show that house price expectations played a material, albeit temporary, role in observed housing market dynamics following the implementation of the non-resident taxes. This effect was more pronounced in Metro Vancouver than in the Greater Golden Horseshoe Area.
R21|Rising inequalities in access to home ownership among young households in France, 1973-2013|[eng] Amongst young households (ages 25 to 44), inequalities in first-time home-ownership and in the amount of acquired real estate assets have increased between the most modest and the most affluent groups over the past forty years. According to Insee’s Housing surveys, 32% of young low-income households were homeowners in 1973, as compared to only 16% in 2013. Beyond the role of macroeconomic and institutional factors (real estate prices, interest rates, term of loans granted, etc.), a decomposition of changes in ownership rates over the period using the “Oaxaca-Blinder” method highlights the role of changes in family structures (increasing proportion of single-parent families, decline in the share of couples with children in the most modest households) and the sharp decline in small rural home ownership. Family support – gift assistance, inheritance and other forms of aid – also played an important part in the 2000s: four out of ten recent homeowners benefited from it, two out of ten even receiving direct financial assistance for their purchase. This support increased significantly among wealthier households during the 2000s, contributing to a widening gap with the share of homeowners in the least well-off populations.
R21|Transaction-tax evasion in the housing market|We model the behaviour of a buyer trying to evade the real estate transfer tax. We identify over-appraisal as a key, easily-observable element that is inversely related with tax evasion. We conclude that the tax authority could focus auditing e orts on low-appraisal transactions. We include `behavioural'components (shame and stigma) allowing to introduce buyers'(education) and societal (social capital) characteristics that explain individual and idiosyncratic variations.Our empirical analysis con rms the predictions using a unique database, where we directly observe: real payment, value declared to the authority,appraisal, buyers' educational level and local levels of corruption and trust.
R21|Boom de crédito en Uruguay: Identificación y Anticipación|In this paper we review the most used methodologies for the identification of credit boom episodes as ex post identification threshold techniques that can be used to identify episodes in Uruguay between 1985 and 2018. We estimate a Bayesian Model Average (BMA) that allows the identification and early prediction of credit booms based on the interrelation between these episodes and the macroeconomic aggregates. Considering the evolution of GDP, private consumption, investment, public spending, imports, exports, the exchange rate, the terms of trade, the current account and the capital account and financial information as a percentage of GDP, it is possible to determine the probability of being in an episode of credit boom up to two quarters in advance. Following this methodology, 3 episodes are identified, from the second quarter of 2000 to the first quarter of 2003, from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2010 and from the second quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2015.
R21|Housing consumption and investment:evidence from shared equity mortgages|Academics have proposed hybrid products with equity features for the financing of housing. In spite of their risk-sharing benefits these products have not become mainstream. This paper studies an important exception, a UK government scheme which in the five years since its inception has provided almost £10 billion of equity financing. The analysis of the origination and prepayment behavior of households who have used the scheme highlights housing affordability constraints. A difference-in-difference analysis of an increase in the maximum government equity limit shows that households took advantage of the increase to buy more expensive properties, and not to reduce their mortgage debt and house price risk exposure. A counterfactual study of homebuyers who, instead of using the equity available, relied on high loan-to-value mortgages shows that their financing choices can be rationalized by an expected rate of house price appreciation of 7.7% per year. We draw general implications for how households approach their house purchase and financing decisions, taking advantage of the fact that the shared equity mortgages that we study allow the separation of the consumption and investment dimensions of housing.
R21|Modelling the distribution of mortgage debt|This paper presents an approach to modelling the flow and the stock of mortgage debt, using loan‑level data. Our approach allows us to consider different macroeconomic scenarios for the housing market, lenders’ and borrowers’ behaviour, and different calibrations of macroprudential policy interventions in a consistent way. This, in turn, allows us to take a forward-looking view about potential risks stemming from the distribution of mortgage debt, as well as assess the impact of potential macroprudential policies in a forward‑looking manner.
R21|Estimating Lifetimes and Stock Turnover Dynamics of Urban Residential Buildings in China|Building lifetime and stock turnover are both key determinants in modelling building energy and carbon. However in China, aside from anecdotal claims that urban residential buildings are generally short-lived, there are no recent official statistics, and empirical data are extremely limited. We present a system dynamics model where survival analysis is used to characterise the dynamic interplay between new construction, aging, and demolition of residential buildings in urban China. The uncertainties associated with building lifetime were represented using a Weibull distribution, whose shape and scale parameters were calibrated based on official statistics on floor area up to 2006. The calibrated Weibull lifetime distribution allowed us to estimate the dynamic stock turnover of Chinese urban residential buildings for 2007 to 2017. We find that the average lifetime of urban residential buildings was around 34 years, and the overall residential stock size reached 23.7 billion m 2 in 2017. The resultant age-specific sub-stocks provide a baseline for the overall stock, which—along with the calibrated Weibull lifetime distribution—can be used in further modelling and for analysis of policies to reduce the whole-life embodied and operational energy and CO 2 emissions in Chinese residential buildings.
R21|Applying Bayesian Model Averaging to Characterise Urban Residential Stock Turnover Dynamics|Building stock is a key determinant in building energy and China is the largest producer of CO2 emissions and the largest consumer of energy and building energy, so any effective energy and climate policy will need to address this key driver of energy use. However, official statistics on total floor area of urban residential stock in China only exist up to 2006. Previous studies estimating Chinese urban residential stock size and energy use made various questionable methodological assumptions and only produced deterministic results. We present a Bayesian approach to characterise the stock turnover dynamics and estimate stock size uncertainties. Firstly, a probabilistic dynamic building stock turnover model is developed to describe the building aging and demolition process governed by a hazard function specified by a parametric survival model. Secondly, using five candidate parametric survival models, the building stock turnover model is simulated through Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to obtain posterior distributions of model-specific parameters, estimate marginal likelihood, and make predictions on stock size. Finally, Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) is applied to create a model ensemble that combines the model-specific posterior predictive distributions of the stock evolution pathway in proportion to posterior model probabilities. This Bayesian modelling framework and its results in the form of probability distributions of annual total stock and age-specific substocks, can provide a solid basis for further modelling and analysis of policy trade-offs across embodied-versus-operational energy consumption and carbon emissions of buildings in the context of sector-wide transitions aimed at decarbonising buildings.
R21|Affordability, Financial Innovation and the Start of the Housing Boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
R21|Intratemporal Nonseparability between Housing and Nondurable Consumption: Evidence from Reinvestment in Housing Stock|Using the data on maintenance expenditures and self-assessed house value, I separate the measure of individual housing stock and house prices, and use these data for testing whether nondurable consumption and housing are characterized by intratemporal nonseparability in households' preferences. I find evidence in favor of intratemporal dependence between total nondurable consumption and housing. I reach a similar conclusion for some separate consumption categories, such as food and utility services. My findings also indicate households are more willing to substitute housing and nondurable consumption within a period than to substitute composite consumption bundles over different time periods.
R21|Effects of Housing Transfer Taxes on Household Mobility|Housing transfer taxes are fiscally important in many countries despite evidence of substantial welfare losses found in several quasi-experimental studies. Research designs used in this prior literature are prone to attenuation bias due to spillovers from mobility or trading across control and treatment groups. We account for these spillovers by combining quasi-experimental empirical analysis with a one-sided housing market model where households act as both buyers and sellers. Using a Finnish tax reform and total population register data, we find that an increase in the transfer tax has a significant negative effect on household mobility. We calibrate our theoretical model to match the mobility rates in our data and our quasi-experimental estimate. In our setting, relying only on the quasi-experiment and ignoring the spillovers would lead to a 20% underestimation of the effect. We argue that the welfare costs of transfer taxes are larger than previously thought.
R21|Market Frictions, Arbitrage, and the Capitalization of Amenities|The price-amenity arbitrage is a cornerstone of spatial economics, as the response of land and house prices to shifts in the quality of local amenities and public goods is typically used to reveal households' willingness to pay for amenities. With informational, time, and cash constraints, households' ability to arbitrage across locations with different amenities (demographics, crime, education, housing) depends on their ability to compare locations and to finance the swap of houses. Arbitrageurs with deep pockets and better search and matching technology can take advantage of price dispersions and unexploited trade opportunities. We develop a disaggregated search and matching model of the housing market with endogenously bargained prices, identified on transaction-level data from the universe of deeds for 6,400+ neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan area, matched with school-level test scores and geocoded criminal offenses. Price-amenity gradients reflect preferences and the capitalization of trading opportunities, which are arbitraged away in the frictionless limit. Thus the time-variation in hedonic pricing coefficients partly reflects the time variation in search and credit frictions. Our model is able to explain that, between the peak of the housing boom and its trough, the sign of the price-amenity gradient flipped, due to the decline in trading opportunities in lower-amenity neighborhoods and due to the lower capitalization of trading opportunities in house prices.
R21|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: The limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
R21|The Beveridge curve in the housing market|As opposed to a recent criticism (according to which a model à la Pissarides inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge curve), this preliminary theoretical paper shows that a baseline search-and-matching model is able to take into account the main distinctive features of the housing market, thus generating an upward sloping Beveridge curve.
R21|Housing Prices and Credit Constraints in Competitive Search|In this paper we embed a directed search model of the real estate market into a heterogeneous agents setting to study the effect of credit on housing prices. Households can either rent or own their home and face idiosyncratic turnover shocks which make them want to change residence. They can accumulate financial assets to put a down payment on a home and to smooth consumption. Search and matching frictions generate frictional dispersion in housing prices and financial assets in equilibrium. Our model is “block recursive” and highly tractable. We calibrate it to reproduce selected statistics for the US. We extend the Endogenous Grid Method with non-convexities to our environment to compute it. In our framework the distribution of wealth, housing prices, and trading probabilities (e.g. liquidity of housing assets) are crucially affected by credit conditions. Our mechanism greatly amplifies the effect of changes in financial conditions on housing prices.
R21|An agent-based model for the assessment of LTV caps|We assess the effects of regulatory caps in the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio using agent-based models (ABMs). Our approach builds upon a straightforward ABM where we model the interactions of sellers, buyers and banks within a computational framework that enables the application of LTV caps. The results are first presented using simulated data and then we calibrate the probability distributions based on actual European data from the HFCS survey. The results suggest that this approach can be viewed as a useful alternative to the existing analytical frameworks for assessing the impact of macroprudential measures, mainly due to the very few assumptions the method relies upon and the ability to easily incorporate additional and more complex features related to the behavioral response of borrowers to such measures. JEL Classification: D14, D31, E50, R21
R21|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: the limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|Urban economics and branches of mainstream economics – what we call the “housing as opportunity” school of thought – have been arguing that shortages of affordable housing in dense agglomerations represent a fundamental barrier for economic development. Housing shortages are considered to limit migration into thriving cities, curtailing their expansion potential, generating rising social and spatial inequalities, and inhibiting national growth. According to this dominant view within economics, relaxing zoning and other planning regulations in the most prosperous cities is crucial to unleash the economic potential of cities and nations and to facilitate within-country migration. In this article, we contend that the bulk of the claims of the housing as opportunity approach are fundamentally flawed and lead to simplistic and misguided policy recommendations. We posit that there is no clear and uncontroversial evidence that housing regulation is a principal source of differences in home availability or prices across cities. Blanket changes in zoning are unlikely to increase domestic migration or to increase affordability for lower-income households in prosperous regions. They would, however, increase gentrification within prosperous regions and would not appreciably decrease income inequality. In contrast to the housing models, we argue the basic motors of all these features of the economy are the current geography of employment, wages and skills.
R21|Affordability, financial innovation and the start of the housing boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
R21|Borrowing constraints and location choice - Evidence from the Paris Region| This paper investigates the determinants of residential segregation using a nested logit model to disentangle household preferences for local amenities, for dwelling type and for homeownership. The model is extended to account for unobservable borrowing constraints which might prevent some households from purchasing a dwelling. A counterfactual distribution of socio-demographic characteristics across the Paris region is then built by relaxing those constraints. The comparison of the actual and counterfactual distributions suggests that if their credit constraints were alleviated, households would tend to locate further from Paris. In particular if constraints were relaxed only on the poorest households, they would not be likely to mix with the richest households.
R21|Disentangling the Effect of Home Ownership on Household Stock-holdings: Evidence from Japanese micro data|Using Japanese household micro survey data for the period 2000–2015, this study examines the effects of home ownership on household stock holdings. To disentangle the effect of housing assets (land value) and mortgage debt on a household’s portfolio of stocks as a share of their liquid financial assets, we apply the instrumental variable approach proposed by Chetty et al. (2017) that employs differences in average land price indices across housing markets in the year in which household portfolios are measured and those in the year in which the house was purchased. Our estimates suggest that an exogenous increase in land value (while holding mortgage debt constant) increases the portfolio of stocks, while an increase in mortgage debt (while holding land value constant) reduces it. We also find that an increase in land value and mortgage debt (while holding home equity constant) does not affect the portfolio of stocks, but increases the repayment of mortgage debt.
R21|Regional Spillovers in the Hungarian Housing Market: Evidence from a Spatio-Temporal Model|This paper analyses housing market spillovers between Hungarian regions in a small, spatio-temporal model, which features both the house price and housing supply as endogenous variables. The paper estimates both the long-run relationship between housing variables and economic fundamentals, and the short-run adjustment path of the housing market towards the long-run equilibrium. Long-run elasticities are in line with previous studies. The size of spillovers between Hungarian regions is economically meaningful; therefore, region-specific developments such as the recent run-up of Budapest house prices can have significant aggregate effects.
R21|Landlords and Access to Opportunity|Despite being eligible for use in any neighborhood, housing choice vouchers tend to be redeemed in low-opportunity neighborhoods. This paper investigates how landlords contribute to this outcome and how they respond to efforts to change it. We leverage a policy change in Washington, DC, that increased voucher rental payments only in high-rent neighborhoods. Using two waves of a correspondence experiment that bracket the policy change, we show that most opportunity landlords screen out prospective voucher tenants, and we detect no change in average screening behavior after a $450 per month increase in voucher payments. In lease-up data, however, enough landlords do respond to increased payments to equalize the flow of voucher tenants into high- vs. low-rent neighborhoods. Using tax data and listings from a website specializing in subsidized housing, we characterize a group of marginal opportunity landlords who respond to higher payments. Marginal opportunity landlords are relatively rare, list their units near market rates, operate on a small scale, and negatively select into the voucher program based on hard-to-observe differences in unit quality.
R21|Second Home Buyers and the Housing Boom and Bust|Record-high second home buying (homeowners acquiring nonprimary residences) was a central feature of the 2000s boom, but the macroeconomic effects remain an open question partly because reliable geographic data is currently unavailable. This paper constructs local data on second home buying by merging credit bureau data with mortgage servicing records. The identification strategy exploits the fact that the vacation share of housing from the 2000 Census is predictive of second home origination shares during the boom years, while also uncorrelated with other boom-bust drivers including proxies for local housing expectations, the use of alternative and PLS mortgages, and supply constraints. Localities with plausibly exogenous higher second home origination shares experienced a more pronounced boom and bust - stronger growth in construction and house prices during the boom, and steeper declines in activity during the recession years. Overall, second home buying could exp lain about 30 and 15 percent of the run-up in construction employment and house prices, respectively, over 2000-2006.
R21|Monetary policy, housing rents, and inflation dynamics|In this paper we study the effect of monetary policy shocks on housing rents. Our main finding is that, in contrast to house prices, housing rents increase in response to contractionary monetary policy shocks. We also find that, after a contractionary monetary policy shock, rental vacancies and the homeownership rate decline. This combination of results suggests that monetary policy may affect housing tenure decisions (own versus rent). In addition, we show that, with the exception of the shelter component, all other main components of the consumer price index (CPI) either decline in response to a contractionary monetary policy shock or are not responsive. These findings motivated us to study the statistical properties of alternative measures of inflation that exclude the shelter component. We find that measures of inflation that exclude shelter have most of the statistical properties of the widely used measures of inflation, such as the CPI and the price index for personal consumption expenditures, but have higher standard deviations and react more to monetary policy shocks. Finally, we show that the response of housing rents accounts for a large proportion of the “price puzzle” found in the literature.
R21|Housing Choices and Their Implications for Consumption Heterogeneity|No abstract is available for this item.
R21|Affordability, Financial Innovation, and the Start of the Housing Boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
R21|The Effects of Gentrification on the Well-Being and Opportunity of Original Resident Adults and Children|We use new longitudinal census microdata to provide the first causal evidence of how gentrification affects a broad set of outcomes for original resident adults and children. Gentrification modestly increases out-migration, though movers are not made observably worse off and neighborhood change is driven primarily by changes to in-migration. At the same time, many original resident adults stay and benefit from declining poverty exposure and rising house values. Children benefit from increased exposure to higher-opportunity neighborhoods, and some are more likely to attend and complete college. Our results suggest that accommodative policies, such as increasing the supply of housing in high-demand urban areas, could increase the opportunity benefits we find, reduce out-migration pressure, and promote long-term affordability
R21|Housing Allowances Alone Cannot Prevent Rent Arrears|[eng] This article examines the extent to which housing allowances ensure continued access to affordable housing in France. According to data from the 2013 Housing Survey (enquête Logement, Insee), the most recent national housing survey available, one in four recipients of housing allowances experienced financial difficulties during a 24‑month period (compared to one in ten non‑recipients). The safety net role of housing allowances is studied through their effect in the event of job loss. The analysis is based on two points of discon­tinuity in terms of income: the eligibility threshold and the ceiling for the maximum rate of allowance. Probit regression results show that recipients of housing allowances are not significantly better protected. Housing allowances also fail to correct inherent disadvantages across households. In fact, the risk of difficulties in paying rent appears to be linked to a combination of factors: low income, unexpected events, certain family composition and places of residence increases the risk.
R21|Technological changes and population growth: The role of land in England|This paper emphasizes the role of land and technological progress in economic and population growth. The model is calibrated using historical data on England concerning both economic growth rate and the factor shares (land, capital, and labor) in total income, as well as mortality tables. It is able to reproduce the dynamics of population since 1760. Moreover, it is possible to disentangle the relative effect of technical changes and mortality fall on the evolution of population. We conduct a counterfactual analysis eliminating successively the increase in life expectancy and the technological bias. With no increase in life expectancy, population would have been respectively 10% and 30% lower in 1910 and in the long run. The figures would have been respectively 40% and 60% lower, with no bias in the technical progress. Finally, population would have been 45% smaller in 1910 and 70% smaller in the long run, neutralizing both the effect of life expectancy and technological bias. So the major part of population increase is due to the technological bias evolution between land and capital.
R21|The Impact of Rental Housing on Neighborhood Racial and Social Integration|Neighborhood racial and class segregation continue to be major social problems within America’s metropolitan areas. Segregation has been linked to a whole host of racial and class inequalities, including access to jobs, schooling and single parenthood, and future earnings. One factor accounting for segregation is the inability of black and lower income households to afford housing in white neighborhoods, where housing units historically have been largely owner-occupied single-family homes. In recent years there has been a shift in the housing makeup of many of these neighborhoods, with rentals and foreclosures increasing in share. This has made housing more affordable in these neighborhoods. In this paper we investigate the impact that foreclosures and three types of rentals (single-family, condominium, and apartments) have on neighborhood racial and income integration using data from Miami-Dade County, Florida. We find that neighborhoods have become more racially and socially integrated as rentals have increased as a share of the housing stock.
R21|Do Potential Future Health Shocks Keep Older Americans from Using Their Housing Equity?|Many retirees retain their housing equity until they die and do not utilize it to help finance spending on consumption. In this paper, I examine how older Americans (age 55+) may use their house as a form of precautionary savings in the event they face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses due to a health shock. I find that households are 12-percentage points more likely to own a home in their late retirement years if they might face an unexpected increase in medical bills, indicating that many of such households prefer not to own but choose to knowing they may get sick and face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses. Accordingly, I propose an insurance policy that would cover any out-of-pocket medical expenses not covered by Medicaid. When the price of the insurance policy is between 0.15%-0.50% of each householdâs house value, 12.8% of households purchase the insurance policy. In the presence of an insurance policy and health shocks, the homeownership and moving rates look like an economy without health shocks, thus correcting a possible market failure that causes households to use their house as a form of precautionary savings.
R21|American Dream Delayed: Shifting Determinants of Homeownership|This paper develops and estimates a dynamic model of discrete choice for labor supply, fertility and transition from tenant to home-owner,to investigate the secular decline in home ownership over the past several decades,wholly attributable to households postponing the purchase of their first home. House prices only partly explain the decline; higher base level wages led to lower fertility also contributing to the decline,because households with children are more likely to own a home than those without.Somewhat surprisingly we find higher levels of female education ameliorated this trend,highly educated women placing greater value on homeownership.
R21|Intergenerational transmission of homeownership decisions in Spain|The aim of this paper is to analyze whether parent’s decision about owning one’s own dwelling may be an important determinant of the future homeownership decisions of their children in Spain. To address this issue, we use data from the Survey of Living Conditions (2011). Our results confirm the intergenerational transmission of homeownership in Spain, in such a way that the probability that the respondent own their home is determined, although not exclusively, by their parent’s homeownership decision during their teenage years.
R21|How Much are Good Schools Worth? Evidence from School Acquisitions in Beijing|We utilize government sanctioned school acquisitions in Beijing to estimate individuals' willingness to pay for good schools. The spatial and temporal variation in these acquisitions allows us to estimate a hedonic pricing model in the difference-in-difference framework. We find that, when a regular school is acquired by a good school, the average housing price in its designated catchment area increases by seven percent, relative to other regular schools that are not acquired. We also find heterogeneous price effects for different types of acquisitions. In particular, the price premium is larger for fully integrated acquisitions than for partially integrated ones, and larger for vertical acquisitions than for horizontal ones.
R21|The Influence Of Short-Term Rental On Rental Housing Prices In Prague|"Prague has for a long time been struggling with the problem of constantly increasing housing prices and their lack. Offer available apartments is extremely low and is manifested by significant price growth and also the limited supply of apartments for sale and rent. One of the factors influencing the price of flats in Prague may be short-term rentals. Today there is an increasing number of flats in the total offer of short-term rentals and the number of hosts with more than one offer is also rising. Airbnb will deviate from its original idea of sharing ""extra beds""."
R21|Modelling Housing Market and Housing Price Dynamics in Croatia|Since the beginning of this century, the Croatian housing market has passed through various stages of development. Roughly, trends in this housing market could be observed through three different phases. The first period encompasses the first eight years of this century and is characterized by stable and positive movements of supply and demand indicators. The year 2008 represents the turning point towards negative trends on the Croatian housing market. This was the beginning of a crisis which lasted seven years. During this period, the demand for housing units has fallen dramatically and supply of new housing units has grown at low rates. As a result of such market developments, housing prices have decreased. Negative trends persist until 2015, when stable increase of supply indicators is perceived. Thereafter, demand side of the market starts to recover, along with housing prices which begin to rise.This research represents an attempt to identify the factors that have influenced the mentioned developments on the Croatian housing market. The significance of factors which are included in analysis is tested within the multiple regression framework. Special emphasis is placed on modelling housing prices dynamics. The results indicate that there are certain specificities of the Croatian housing market. For example, demand cannot be explained well by standard housing demand determinants. The low significance of the standard factors is even more pronounced in modelling supply side of the market. When observing the significance of housing prices in the supply and demand equations, the results show that lagged prices in both equations are statistically significant. Therefore, it can be concluded that expectations on housing market in Croatia are adaptive. Finally, supply and demand elasticities are observed as their comparison can potentially help in explaining cyclic movements in the housing market.
R21|Buy to let. Investment buyers in a housing search model|In this paper, I explore and explain how buy-to-let investors affect housing price dynamics. The impact of buy-to-let investors on the housing market is much discussed by policy makers, but previously not considered in the literature. I develop a structural search model that allows housing owners to buy second houses to let out, and let rents be determined endogenously. To motivate the model, I present empirical evidence from the city of Oslo showing that a significant share of buyers are buy-to-let investors, and both rents and the share of second house buyers are positively correlated with housing prices. The model introduces two mechanisms that affect volatility compared to a model with no landlords and constant rents. First, the endogenous correlation of rents and housing prices makes it attractive for non-owners to buy in “hot” markets, to avoid paying high rents. Second, the increased incentives to become landlords in high rent periods further increase the number of buyers and amplify the effect of high rents on housing prices and transaction volumes. The model is calibrated using data from Oslo, and is able to match quantitatively the high investor share and housing price volatility of a housing boom.
R21|UK House Prices – Connectedness or Ripple Effect?|Using nonlinear causality and impulse response we show bidirectional dependence between the London house prices and other UK regions’ house prices except for Northern Ireland and Wales. This result has important implications for policy makers and investors.
R21|An analysis to detect exuberance and implosion in regional house prices in Turkey|The aim of this paper is to find out whether there is exuberance in regional house prices in Turkey. For this purpose, we analyze real hedonic house prices and price to rent ratios countrywide as well as for 26 geographic regions at the NUTS2 level from January 2010 to January 2019. We perform the right-tailed unit root testing procedures developed by Phillips et al. (2015) and Phillips and Shi (2018) and use their real time date-stamping strategy to determine periods of explosiveness and implosion. Our empirical findings indicate that there were exuberance episodes in house prices in Turkey for multiple periods, where an important contributor to these dynamics was the largest housing market, Ä°stanbul. We also detect exuberance in some other regions, particularly in the neighboring NUTS2 regions of Ä°stanbul and in Ä°zmir after around 2014. However, we find out that explosive price behavior turned into implosion in many regions starting from 2018.
R21|Debt and Taxes: The Sale-Rent Housing Price Ratio in Dublin since 1945|The recent Great Recession highlights the importance of housing to the broader economy, yet few reliable long-run series exist for sale and rental prices of housing. Using hedonic methods, frequency conversion techniques, and a detailed dataset of over one million sale and rental listings from newspapers and online, we construct new quarterly indices of sale and rental prices for Dublin, Ireland for the period starting in 1945 and an annual panel for six areas of the city over the same period. The series show four major market cycles, as well as three distinct phases for housing yield, with downward shifts in the early 1970s and again in the late 1990s. There is some evidence of rents converging across markets within the city but sale prices have diverged over the same period. An error-correction econometric analysis confirms the predictions of economic theory, that credit conditions in the credit market and user cost drive changes in the yield over time.
R21|Residential Property Price Indexes: Spatial Coordinates versus Neighbourhood Dummy Variables|The paper addresses the following question: can satisfactory residential property price indexes be constructed using hedonic regression techniques where location effects are modeled using local neighbourhood dummy variables or is it necessary to use spatial coordinates to model location effects. Hill and Scholz (2018) addressed this question and found, using their hedonic regression model, that it was not necessary to use spatial coordinates to obtain satisfactory property price indexes for Sydney. However, their hedonic regression model did not estimate separate land and structure price indexes for residential properties. In order to construct national balance sheet estimates, it is necessary to have separate land and structure price indexes. The present paper addresses the Hill and Scholz question in the context of providing satisfactory residential land price indexes. The spatial coordinate model used in the present paper is a modification of Colwellâ€™s (1998) spatial interpolation method. The modification can be viewed as a general nonparametric method for estimating a function of two variables.
R21|The cyclical behavior of the Beveridge Curve in the housing market|This paper develops a business cycle model of the housing market with search frictions and entry of both buyers and sellers. The housing market exhibits a well-established cyclical component, which features three stylized facts: prices move in the same direction as sales and the number of houses for sale, but opposite to the time it takes to sell a house. These stylized facts imply that in the data housing vacancies and the number of buyers are positively correlated, i.e. that the Beveridge Curve is upward sloping. A baseline search and matching model of the housing market is unable to match these stylized facts because it inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge Curve. With free entry of both buyers and sellers, our model reproduces the positive correlation between prices, sales and vacancies, and matches the stylized facts qualitatively and quantitatively.
R21|The impact of Airbnb on residential property values and rents: evidence from Portugal|Short-term rentals have facilitated the upraise trend in tourism growth in several cities around the world. However, concerns for the negative effects that such home-sharing platforms may have on the housing market and traditional markets have driven community groups and housing advocates to intensely react against them. Whether or not shortterm rentals increase housing prices and rents for local residents is an empirical question. We quantify the causal effects of Airbnb's short-term rentals on urban housing affordability in Portugal by estimating quarterly housing rents and prices as a function of Airbnb concentration. We take advantage of the 2014 regulatory reform and employ a difference-in-differences (DiD) empirical strategy. We estimate an overall increase in property values of 34% and 10.9% for rents due to the short-term lease regulatory reform. We also find that these effects are particularly localized to the historical centers and areas attractive to tourists in the cities of Lisbon and Porto. A better understanding of the effects of shortterm home rentals on housing markets and of the magnitude of its impact on residential property prices and rents are crucial information to determine whether it needs to be regulated and how proper regulation should be designed. JEL codes: R21, R31, Z32
R21|Transaction-tax Evasion in the Housing Market|We model the behaviour of a buyer trying to evade the real estate transfer tax. We identify over-appraisal as a key, easily-observable element that is inversely related with tax evasion. We conclude that the tax authority could focus auditing efforts on low-appraisal transactions. We include `behavioural' components (shame and stigma) allowing to introduce buyers' (education) and societal (social capital) characteristics that explain individual and idiosyncratic variations. Our empirical analysis confirms the predictions using a unique database, where we directly observe: real payment, value declared to the authority, appraisal, buyers' educational level and local levels of corruption and trust.
R21|Economic and Cultural Residential Sorting of Auckland’s Population 1991-2013: An Entropy Approach|Auckland, the largest city of New Zealand, is one of the most diverse cities in the world, with more than 40 percent of its population born abroad, more than 200 ethnicities represented and 160 languages spoken. In this paper, we measure residential sorting of individuals in Auckland by their cultural (ethnicity) and economic (age, income, education, occupation) characteristics for the years 1991-2013. We use entropy-based measures of residential sorting as our preferred measure, and find that individuals exhibit the greatest residential sorting by ethnicity, compared with sorting by economic characteristics. We also observe that ethnic sorting declined between 1991 and 2013, for broad ethnic groups, but that sorting within the broad ethnic groups has increased. At the broad occupational groups level, sorting has also declined between 1991 and 2013, but the contribution to sorting of within-broad-group occupations has increased. We also observe that the semi-rural fringes of the city are less diverse than the central urban area.
R21|The Effects of Immigration on Local Housing Markets|This paper provides a survey of the international evidence regarding the impact of immigration on local housing markets. A theoretical framework highlights the complexity of the housing market and the importance of distinguishing between the ownership and use of the stock of dwellings vis-à-vis the residential real estate market. Evidence from eight countries (Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States) and from meta-analysis shows that immigration will lead to higher house prices and rents, and lower housing affordability. On average, a one percent increase in immigration in a city may be expected to raise rents by one-half to one percent and the effect on prices is about double that. However, there is a large variance around this average which is related inter alia to the time frame and spatial scale of the analysis, as well as to local economic conditions. Additionally, the housing impact of immigration will depend on the demographic and economic composition of the immigrant flow, on macroeconomic conditions and expectations, on the institutional factors that influence the price elasticity of the supply of new dwellings, and on how the native born react to immigration. The tendency of the native born to move out of city wards where migrants settle can lead to relative house price declines in these areas. Overall, immigration has been only a minor contributor to the sharply rising house prices in many fast-growing agglomerations in recent decades.
R21|Household Portfolio Choice Before and After a House Purchase|Using unique administrative panel data from Denmark, this paper documents the development of households’ liquid wealth, equity market participation (the extensive margin), and the conditional risky asset share of liquid wealth (the intensive margin) over a 7-year period around a house purchase. We find that households’ equity market participation rate drops during the year of house purchase. Conditional on participation, the risky asset share of liquid wealth follows a V-shape around the house purchase. It decreases and reaches the lowest point 1 year before a house purchase but jumps up immediately after. This finding suggests that of the three channels identified in the literature that affect the risky asset demand after a house purchase, the debt retirement channel and the diversification effect dominate the liquidity concern.
R21|A novel housing price misalignment indicator for Germany|From 2014 until present, housing prices in Germany have been rising faster than consumer prices in all quarters except one, raising concerns about an excessive over-heating of the housing market. To assess the vulnerability of the German housing market to a future realignment of prices or even a housing bust, this paper develops a housing price misalignment indicator that is composed of seven indicators, which are commonly associated with the fundamental value of residential property. An empirical application to the most recent data suggests that the German housing market exhibits an overvaluation of approximately 11%, where interest rate risk and a relatively advanced stage of the housing cycle are identified as the main factors fueling these imbalances, while a rather solid debt-servicing capacity mitigates these imbalances since end-2009.
R21|The Effect of House Prices on Fertility: Evidence from Canada|The price of housing is an important and under-studied candidate for consideration in fertility decisions. Theoretically, higher housing prices will cause renters to have fewer additional children, and home owners to have more children if they already have sufficient housing and low substitution between children and other “goods”, and fewer children otherwise. In this paper, we combine longitudinal data from the Canadian Survey of Labour Income and Dynamics (SLID) and housing price data from the Canadian Real Estate Association to estimate the effect of housing price on fertility. We follow non-moving women aged 18-40 (with their associated families) over time to ask whether changes in lagged housing price affects marginal or total fertility. For home owners, we find that lagged housing prices are positively associated with marginal fertility using pooled cross section or fixed effects, negatively associated with total fertility under pooled cross section, but positively associated using fixed effects. For renters, lagged housing prices are not significantly negatively associated with either total or marginal fertility measures.
R21|Endogenous segregation dynamics and housing market interactions: An ABM approach|In contrast to previous research, I hypothesize that residential segregation patterns do not only result from an individual's perception of different ethnicities, but is rather affected by housing market interactions and socioeconomic endowment, like income and education. I implement a theoretical agent-based model, which contains three main features: agents' socioeconomic endowment, the quantification of one's Willingness-to-Stay within a neighborhood and housing market interactions if an agent decides to move. The results indicate that housing market interactions, the valuation of socioeconomic factors, but also the increasing share of minority groups diminish the absolute level of racial segregation. The analysis shows that house price clusters dominate urban areas, since individuals have an incentive to stay in more expensive neighborhoods in which they made a bargain. An increase in house price segregation can be observed if individuals strongly undervalue their own house and if individuals have higher access to credit. I can show that these market interactions lead to lock-in effects for low-income individuals, since they lack the necessary budget and suffer under negative equity. Thus, residential segregation shows a strong dependency on housing market interactions and is more complex than presumed by Schelling's Spatial Model or the White Flight Hypothesis.
R21|The price of residential land for counties, ZIP codes, and census tracts in the United States|Our analysis produces three main findings for our sample: land prices in most areas increased between 2012 and 2017, land prices tended to rise faster than house prices, and land appreciated most rapidly in areas with relatively high density of structures.
R21|American dream delayed: shifting determinants of homeownership|This paper develops and estimates a dynamic model of discrete choice for labor supply, fertility and transition from tenant to homeowner, to investigate the secular decline in homeownership over the past several decades, wholly attributable to households postponing the purchase of their first home. House prices only partly explain the decline; higher base level wages led to lower fertility also contributing to the decline, because households with children are more likely to own a home than those without. Somewhat surprisingly we find higher levels of female education ameliorated this trend, highly educated women placing greater value on homeownership.
R21|Not for you! The cost of having a foreign-sounding name in the Swedish private housing market|Both immigration and a troubling housing deficit have increased rapidly in Sweden over the past 20 years. Today, up to 33 percent of the people living in the largest Swedish cities are immigrants. In this Internet-based field experiment, we investigated whether there exists discrimination in the Swedish private rental housing market based on the names of apartment seekers. We used a correspondent test by randomly sending out equivalent applications from four fictitious, highly educated, and seemingly “well-behaved” male applicants in response to a number of randomly selected private housing ads. Each advertiser received applications from two applicants with names signalling Swedish, Arab/Muslim, Eastern European, or East Asian ethnicity. Our results clearly confirm previous findings that persons with a name traditionally associated with the majority group in the respective community receive more call backs than others. When comparing our results with previous discrimination research focusing on Swedish housing market, we find that a man with an Arab/Muslim-sounding name needs to apply for clearly more rental objects in order to get a call back compared with just 10 years ago. Our results strongly indicate that the name of a person matters a great deal when applying for a rental object.
R21|On the use of Hedonic Regression Models to Measure the Effect of Energy Efficiency on Residential Property Transaction Prices: Evidence for Portugal and Selected Data Issues|Using a unique dataset containing information of around 256 thousand residential property sales, this paper discloses a clear sales premium for most energy efficient dwellings, which is more pronounced for apartments (13%) than for houses (5 to 6%). Cross-country comparisons support the finding that energy efficiency price premiums are higher in the Portuguese residential market than in central and northern European markets. Results emphasize the relevance of data issues in hedonic regression models. They illustrate how the use of appraisal prices, explanatory variables with measurement errors, and the omission of variables associated with the quality of the properties, may seriously bias energy efficiency partial effect estimates. These findings provide valuable information not only to policy-makers, but also to researchers interested in this area.
R21|Search frictions, housing prices and growth|Rising house prices have a positive impact on real GDP through the consumption effect and the construction of new houses (housing investment). Basically, the strength of this positive effect relies on a large share of homeowners (especially regarding the consumption effect). At the same time, however, a greater share of homeowners could encourage unemployment (the so-called “Oswald hypothesis”), thus damaging economic growth. This theoretical paper includes the link between housing tenure and job-search intensity in the relation between housing prices and growth. The main finding of this work is that homeownership may either reinforce or resize the effect of housing prices on economic growth.
R21|Drought and Property Prices: Empirical Evidence from Iran|This study demonstrates an economic consequence of climate change and water crises in Iran. It examines the effect of drought on housing prices, residential land prices, and housing rents in Iran. Using data from provinces of Iran from 1993 to 2015 and applying static and dynamic panel fixed effects estimators, we find evidence that an increase in the balance of water (reducing the severity of drought) within provinces has a positive effect on property prices. Our results have important implications for Iranian policymakers and property investors.
R21|Market Frictions, Arbitrage, and the Capitalization of Amenities|The price-amenity arbitrage is a cornerstone of spatial economics, as the response of land and house prices to shifts in the quality of local amenities and public goods is typically used to reveal households' willingness to pay for amenities. With informational, time, and cash constraints, households' ability to arbitrage across locations with different amenities (demographics, crime, education, housing) depends on their ability to compare locations and to finance the swap of houses. Arbitrageurs with deep pockets and better search and matching technology can take advantage of price dispersions and unexploited trade opportunities. We develop a disaggregated search and matching model of the housing market with endogenously bargained prices, identified on transaction-level data from the universe of deeds for 6,400+ neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan area, matched with school-level test scores and geocoded criminal offenses. Price-amenity gradients reflect preferences and the capitalization of trading opportunities, which are arbitraged away in the frictionless limit. Thus the time-variation in hedonic pricing coefficients partly reflects the time variation in search and credit frictions. Our model is able to explain that, between the peak of the housing boom and its trough, the sign of the price-amenity gradient flipped, due to the decline in trading opportunities in lower-amenity neighborhoods and due to the lower capitalization of trading opportunities in house prices.
R21|Affordable Housing and City Welfare|Housing affordability has become one of the main policy challenges for the major cities of the world. Two key policy levers are zoning and rent control policies. We build a new dynamic equilibrium asset pricing model to evaluate the implications of such policies for house prices, rents, production and income, residential construction, income and wealth inequality, as well as the spatial distribution of households within the city. We calibrate the model to New York City, incorporating current zoning and rent control systems. Our model suggests large welfare gains from relaxing zoning regulations in Manhattan, and more modest gains from reducing the size of the rent control program. The former policy is progressive and a Pareto improvement, while rent control reform is regressive in nature and hurts the current beneficiaries.
R21|Reducing and Preventing Homelessness: A Review of the Evidence and Charting a Research Agenda|Homelessness may be both a cause of and one of the more extreme outcomes of poverty. Governments at all levels have a variety of tools to combat homelessness, and these strategies have changed dramatically over the past quarter century. In this paper, we catalog the policy responses, the existing literature on the effectiveness of these strategies, and the major gaps that need to be addressed in future research. We focus on studies from randomized controlled trial evaluations and the best quasi-experimental designs, and discuss outstanding questions that can be addressed with these same methods.
R21|Housing cooperatives are a growing presence in Australiaâ€™s housing system, providing a diversity of housing forms to a variety of household types across the income spectrum, typically serving low- and moderate-income households. International evidence shows that housing cooperatives can provide a range of housing from very low price points through to market rate in both non-urban and urban contexts. The research presented in this report reviewed a selection of international cooperative housing sectors in addition to the Australian context, with the aims of compiling current evidence for the social and financial benefits of housing cooperatives, to develop a framework to assess this in Australia; and to identify preliminary issues regarding the growth and diversification of housing cooperatives in Australia. Australian and international evidence for the benefits of housing cooperatives focuses on seven primary areas; greater levels of social capital, greater housing security and quality, health and wellbeing, skills acquisition, reduced costs, broader economic and development outcomes. Based on the international review, five factors can be seen to help the growth of cooperative housing in addition to supportive policy and/or public funding. Core amongst these are a stable asset base if the State itself is not the developer, access to appropriate finance, and familiarity and acceptance in the market. The growth and diversification of Australiaâ€™s cooperative housing sector requires assessment of its legislative and funding environment. Factors for consideration are: 1. Individual project viability; 2. Access to property title; 3. Appropriate development finance and resident mortgage mechanisms; 4. Policy support; 5. Appropriate regulation|No abstract is available for this item.
R21|Improving well-being through better housing policy in New Zealand|New Zealand’s housing supply has not kept pace with rising demand, including from net immigration. Affordability has worsened, particularly for low-income renters. Government action is underway to allow new housing through initiatives such as the Urban Growth Agenda, KiwiBuild and the Housing and Urban Development Authority, but further steps are needed to improve well-being. Clear overarching principles for sustainable urban development and rationalisation of strict regulatory containment policies would allow the planning system to better respond to demand for land. Incentives for local governments to accommodate growth could be increased by giving them access to additional revenue linked to local development. More user charging and targeted rates would also help to fund infrastructure required to service new housing. Government delivery of affordable housing through KiwiBuild should be re-focused towards enabling the supply of land to developers, supporting development of affordable rental housing and further expanding social housing in areas facing shortages.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (http://www.oecd.org/economy/new-zealand-economic-snapshot/).
R21|A New Home Affordability Estimate: What Share of Housing Stock Can Families Afford?|"We offer a new home affordability estimate (HAE) that focuses on the share of housing stock that is affordable to certain households in the United States. The methodology considers affordability as it relates to funds available for down payments, initial monthly housing-related payments, and future projections of household income and costs. The HAE builds upon existing industry statistics in two ways. First, existing affordability indexes make certain assumptions for one or more of those funding factors. We can observe actual investment and expense values. Second, existing industry statistics consider ""typical"" families that earn the median household income level. The HAE is sufficiently more flexible for evaluating families at different places in the income distribution. This paper discusses the assumptions and processes for creating the HAE indexes; compares the national time series for very low-, low-, and medium-income families; and then documents trends across metropolitan areas. We offer the data for public usage and leave commentary about implications to future research."
R21|The Relationship between Environmental Factors and Purchasing Decisions in the Residential Market|The overarching aim of this study is to investigate the factors behind the relatively slow evolution of the green residential housing market in Sweden. The intention is to examine stated willingness to pay (WTP) for green and low energy apartments, and to explore which factors have a significant effect on stated WTP among apartment owners. A green building was defined as a building certified according to the environmental scheme and a low energy building as a building designed and constructed with high energy efficiency goals. Data for this study were collected through a survey conducted among occupants of comparable apartment buildings: two green and one conventional. The study applied a quasi-experimental method; survey responses regarding factors affecting purchase of apartment, stated WTP and environmental literacy have been analysed using descriptive statistics, the Mann–Whitney (rank sum) test and logistic models. Comments received from respondents have been used for further interpretation of results. Results indicate that environmental education has a significant effect on stated WTP. Occupants who declared higher WTP showed a higher level of environmental literacy and indicated that energy efficiency was one of the important factors that affected their decision to buy an apartment. It is concluded that growth in the green housing market in Sweden might be achieved if policymakers and developers engage in active education in the environmental labelling system. The demand for green buildings is more likely to increase when the difference between green and conventional buildings is easily understood and information is not only delivered by the estate agent, but is part of an environmental education programme.
R21|Learning from man or machine: Spatial aggregation and house price prediction|House prices vary with location. At the same time the border between two neighboring housing markets tends to be fuzzy. When we seek to explain or predict house prices we need to correct for spatial price variation. A much used way is to include neighborhood dummy variables. In general, it is not clear how to choose a spatial subdivision in the vast space of all possible spatial aggregations. We take a biologically inspired approach, where diﬀerent spatial aggregations mutate and recombine according to their explanatory power in a standard hedonic housing market model. We ﬁnd that the genetic algorithm consistently ﬁnds aggregations that outperform conventional aggregation both in and out of sample. A comparison of best aggregations of diﬀerent runs of the genetic algorithm shows that even though they converge to a similar high explanatory power, they tend to be genetically and economically diﬀerent. Diﬀerences tend to be largely conﬁned to areas with few housing market transactions.
R21|Aging and House Prices: The Impact of Aging Housing Stock to Housing Market in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area|Based on an analysis of the housing market, this paper focuses on external diseconomies of aging condominiums. It is possible that the quality of condominium stock deteriorates over time more rapidly than does that of ordinary housing. This deterioration in quality leads to a reduction in the quality of housing services received by residents and, further, this worsening of the residential environment may lead to external diseconomies. We run hedonic models to identify the external diseconomies of aging condominiums on the residential market. The results of our estimated models indicate that such external diseconomies for detached housing occur in areas where detached houses and condominiums coexist, and these exert a downward pressure on prices. Detached housing prices are lowered by around 3.2% for each 1% increase in the proportion of the total building floor area in neighborhoods in which condominiums were built before 1990. In other words, we can state that aging condominiums begin to generate diseconomies in their vicinities around 20 years after they were built.
R21|Asymmetric effects of monetary policy in regional housing markets|The responsiveness of house prices to monetary policy shocks depends both on the nature of the shock – expansionary versus contractionary – and on city-specific housing supply elasticities. We test and find supporting evidence for the hypothesis that expansionary monetary policy shocks have a larger impact on house prices when supply elasticities are low on 263 US metropolitan areas. We also test whether contractionary shocks are orthogonal to supply elasticities, as implied by downward rigidity of housing supply, and find supporting evidence. A final theoretical conjecture is that contractionary shocks should have a greater impact on house prices than expansionary shocks, as long as supply is not perfectly inelastic. For areas with high housing supply elasticity, our results are in line with this conjecture. However, for areas with an inelastic housing supply, we find that expansionary shocks have a greater impact on house prices than contractionary shocks. We provide evidence that this is related to a momentum effect that is more pronounced when house prices are increasing than when they are falling.
R21|Immigration, Housing Rents, and Residential Segregation: Evidence from Syrian Refugees in Turkey|The massive inflow of Syrian refugees is argued to drastically affect various social and economic outcomes in the hosting countries and regions. In this paper, we use micro-level data to investigate whether the Syrian refugee inflows have affected the market for housing rentals in Turkey. The unexpected arrival of a large number of refugees due to civil conflict in Syria is used to construct a quasi-experimental design. Since the construction of new housing units takes a long time, refugee inflow resembles a positive demand shock to the sector. We find that the refugee inflows have led to an increase in the rents of higher-quality housing units, while there is no statistically significant effect in the rents of lower-quality units. This finding supports a residential segregation story, which suggests that the refugee wave has increased the demand for native-dominant neighborhoods with better amenities especially among natives. We argue that negative attitudes towards refugees – potentially due to refugee-native conflict along several dimensions – may be generating this result.
R21|Marriage Market Signals and Homeownership for the Never Married|"There is a growing trend of buying homes among the single population in the U.S. This trend has been referred to as ""Going Solo"" and is particularly evident among women who are the focus of our study. In this paper we investigate the hypothesis that homeownership probabilities can be affected by marriage market expectations and pessimistic marriage market expectations may raise home buying probabilities among never married singles. We focus solely on the sub population called the never married single females and our results provide evidence consistent with the above hypothesis. In particular, we find that up to a certain threshold, the probability of homeownership decreases when the marriage market prospect indicator improves and there is evidence of heterogeneity in this relationship across race, education level, age group and motherhood status."
R21|Home Ownership and Monetary Policy Transmission|We present empirical evidence on the heterogeneity in monetary policy transmission across countries with different home ownership rates. We use household-level data together with shocks to the policy rate identified from high-frequency data. We find that housing tenure reacts more strongly to unexpected changes in the policy rate in Germany and Switzerland –the OECD countries with the lowest home ownership rates– compared with existing evidence for the U.S. An unexpected decrease in the policy rate by 25 basis points increases the home ownership rate by 0.8 percentage points in Germany and by 0.6 percentage points in Switzerland. The response of non-housing consumption in Switzerland is less heterogeneous across renters and mortgagors, and has a different pattern across age groups than in the U.S. We discuss economic explanations for these findings and implications for monetary policy.
R21|Housing expenditures and income inequality|In this paper, we show that, in terms of real disposable income, changes in housing expenditures dramatically exacerbate the trend of income inequality that has risen sharply in Germany since the mid-1990s. More specifically, whereas the 50/10 ratio of net household income increases by 22 percentage points (pp) between 1993 and 2013, it increases by 62 pp for income net of housing expenditures. At the same time, the income share of housing expenditures rises disproportionally for the bottom income quintile and falls for the top quintile. Factors contributing to these trends include a decline in the relative costs of homeownership versus renting, changes in household structure, and residential mobility toward larger cities. Younger cohorts spend more on housing and save less than older cohorts did at the same age, with possibly negative consequences for wealth accumulation, particularly for those at the bottom of the income distribution.
R21|The 2015 European Refugee Crisis and Residential Housing Rents in Germany|This paper studies the impact at county level of the mass arrival of refugees in 2015 on residential housing rents in Germany. Using unique and novel data for 2014 and 2015 on end of year (EoY) county-level refugee populations and their type of accommodation as well as on monthly individual offers of flats for rent from Germany’s leading online property broker, we find strong evidence for a negative effect of refugee immigration on rental prices for residential housing in Germany. An increase in the county-level EoY refugee share by one percentage point is associated with a lower average rental price of 0.57% in the period October to December 2015, and a lower average rental price of 0.97% in January to March 2016. Additional evidence suggests that this negative price effect may have been facilitated by increases in the share of refugees in decentralized accommodation. IV regressions that exploit for identification variation in intra-state distances between counties that house refugee reception centers and surrounding counties produce even stronger negative price effects. Our finding of a negative price effect is at odds with the majority of studies which have investigated the consequences of immigration for local property markets at the county or city level. These diverging results may reflect differences in natives’ perceptions of potential adverse externalities associated with refugee migration, differences of seemingly sufficient magnitude to successfully counteract and outweigh any positive demand-side driven stimulus of immigration for higher rental prices.
R21|The Effect of Residential Location and Housing Unit Characteristics on Labor Force Participation of Childbearing Women in Indonesia: Using Twin Births As A Quasi-Natural Experiment|I empirically investigated the influence of residential location and housing unit characteristics on the labor force participation of childbearing women by applying quasi-experimental methods and taking a developing countryâ€™s perspective â€“ where the family size tends to grow faster. While the choices of residential location and housing unit characteristics are rarely exogenous, it is important to deal with the endogeneity problem. I use instrumental variable models, with twin births and gender composition as the exogenous sources of variation in the family size, and exploit an enormous micro dataset from the Indonesian Census Population 2010. Previous works of literature have examined the effect of twin birth on the female labor supply, but less attention given to the housing decision. This study provides new evidence of a forward-looking behavior about the residential location and housing consumption due to household size effects and shows that such behavior will most likely influence the female labor supply
R21|Residential Satisfaction for a Continuum of Households: Evidence from European Countries|Residential satisfaction depends on housing and neighborhood conditions in addition to housing cost affordability. To determine the relative importance of these factors, their average effect is usually estimated using sample data, eventually split in sub-samples in order to represent social classes. In this paper, within the theoretical framework of subjective well-being, we propose a novel empirical strategy independent of the concept of social class, able to estimate how the effect of drivers of residential satisfaction change on continuous according to households' income. We apply our methodology to investigate residential satisfaction in 23 European countries using 2012 EU-SILC module on housing conditions.
R21|Housing boom-bust cycles and asymmetric macroprudential policy|Macroprudential policy is pre-emptive, aimed at preventing crises. Empirical evidence hints at the existence of asymmetric policy in booms and recessions. This paper uses a New Keynesian model with a financial friction on mortgage borrowing and collateral to show what implications this asymmetry might have on the economy. The main source of fluctuations is a bubble in the housing market, which causes house prices and credit to deviate from their fundamental values, leading to a boom and bust cycle. The main macroprudential tool is the regulatory loan to value (LTV) ratio. The author finds that while the asymmetric policy dampens the boom phase, it introduces more volatility in the economy by exacerbating the correction that follows. The higher the asymmetry in the policy response, the more volatile the economy is relative to one in which policy reacts symmetrically.
R21|Housing Market Shocks in Italy: a GVAR approach|In this paper, we use a Global Vector Autoregression (GVAR) model to assess the spatio-temporal mechanism of house price spillovers, also known as “ripple effect”, among 93 Italian provincial housing markets, over the period 2004 - 2016. In order to better capture the local housing market dynamics, we use data not only on house prices but also on transaction volumes. In particular, we focus on estimating, to what extent, exogenous shocks, interpreted as negative housing demand shocks, arising from 10 Italian regional capitals, impact on their house prices and sales and how these shocks spill over to neighbours housing markets. The negative housing market demand shock hitting the GVAR model is identified by using theory-driven sign restrictions. The spatio-temporal analysis carried through impulse response functions shows that there is evidence of a “ripple effect” mainly occurring through transaction volumes.
R21|Do housing allowances increase rents? Evidence from a discrete policy change|A major concern with demand side housing subsidies to low-income tenants is the extent to which they may be captured by landlords in the form of higher rents. The Accommodation Supplement (AS) benefit is the largest housing subsidy policy in New Zealand. A 2005 policy change created a new AS-area around central Auckland that resulted in an increase in AS entitlement for residents within the area compared to those outside. In this paper we exploit the natural experiment created by this policy change to evaluate whether the increase in accommodation support for recipients in the new area led to relatively higher rents than paid by recipients outside the boundary. We use administrative data for a sample of AS recipients on either side of the new area boundary over the four-year period spanning the policy change. Our analysis shows that as a result of the policy change, recipients on the inside of the boundary received around $6.81 per week more in total accommodation support in the second year after the policy was implemented. We estimate that weekly rents increased on average about $2.44 more inside the boundary (36 percent of the increase in AS) and, as expected, the impacts were stronger at higher quantiles of the rent distribution. We also find that the rent increases were concentrated among families with children, and present some evidence that this reflected increased spending on housing (which may have reduced over-crowding), rather than a wider increase in rental prices.
R21|Population aging and housing prices: who are we calling old?|This paper empirically studies through which channel - between short expected remaining life and withdrawal from the labor market - population aging affects real house price more and how the effect can vary if old-age population is defined alternatively in a way to reflect different aspects of aging, using a panel data of OECD countries. It finds that the main driver of a negative relationship between aging and real house price comes from the later stage of life and not immediately after the age of 65 or retirement. It also shows that the effective retirement age matters more in explaining the relationship between aging and real house price than the age 65, since the share of retired population has a nonlinear effect on real house price, while the standard old-age population aged over 65 does not. When I project future real house price, the standard old-age population only predicts a further decrease in real house price as aging continues, whereas the retired population captures a positive marginal effect and leaves room for policy intervention.
R21|Housing Wealth Effects: The Long View|We provide new time-varying estimates of the housing wealth effect back to the 1980s. These estimates are based on a new identification strategy that exploits systematic differences in city-level exposure to regional house price cycles as an instrument for house prices. Our estimates of housing wealth effects are substantially more precise and smaller than recent estimates, though they remain economically important. Our time-varying estimates indicate that housing wealth effects were not particularly large in the 2000s. This contradicts a popular narrative that lax lending standards in the boom and skyrocketing loan-to-value (LTV) ratios during the bust elevated the housing wealth effect in the 2000s. We show, furthermore, that this narrative is inconsistent with a standard life-cycle model with borrowing constraints, uninsurable income risk, illiquid housing, and long-term mortgages. The housing wealth effect in the model is relatively insensitive to changes in the distribution of LTV for two reasons: First, impatient low- LTV agents have a high elasticity; Second, a rightward shift in the LTV distribution increases not only the number of highly sensitive constrained agents but also the number of underwater agents whose consumption is insensitive to house prices.
R21|Credit Supply and Housing Speculation|Speculation is a critical channel through which credit supply expansion affects the housing cycle. The surge in private label mortgage securitization in 2003 fueled a large expansion in mortgage credit supply by lenders financed with non-core deposits. Areas more exposed to these lenders experienced a large relative rise in transaction volume driven by a small group of speculators, and these areas simultaneously witnessed an amplified housing boom and bust. Consistent with the importance of belief heterogeneity, house price growth expectations of marginal buyers rose during the boom, while housing market pessimism among the general population increased.
R21|Drivers of the Great Housing Boom-Bust: Credit Conditions, Beliefs, or Both?|Two potential driving forces of house price fluctuations are commonly cited: credit conditions and beliefs. We posit some simple empirical calculations using direct measures of credit conditions and beliefs to consider their potentially distinct roles in house price fluctuations at the aggregate level. Changes in credit conditions are positively related to the fraction of riskier non-conforming debt in total mortgage lending, while measures of beliefs are unrelated to this ratio. Credit conditions explain quantitatively large magnitudes of the variation in quarterly house price growth and also predict future house price growth. Beliefs bear some relation to contemporaneous house price growth but have little predictive power. A structural VAR analysis implies that shocks to credit conditions have quantitatively important dynamic causal effects on house price changes.
R21|China's Real Estate Market|Since the 1990s, China's real estate market has experienced a dramatic and long-lasting boom across China. This boom has led to substantial concerns in both academic and policy circles that the rising housing prices might have developed into a gigantic housing bubble, which might eventually burst and damage China’s financial system and economy. Motivated by this concern, this paper reviews the historical development of China’s real estate market, describes the real estate boom, and discusses its links to households, local governments, firms and the financial system.
R21|Tax Policy and Toxic Housing Bubbles in China|This paper explores the effects of a government tax policy in a growth model with economic transition and toxic housing bubbles applied to China. Such a policy combines taxing entrepreneurs with a one-time redistribution to workers in the same period. Under the tax policy, we find that the welfare improvement for workers is non-monotonic. In particular, there exists an optimal tax at which social welfare is maximized. Moreover, we consider the welfare effects of setting the tax at its optimum. We show that the tax policy can be welfare-enhancing, compare to the case without active policies. The optimal tax may also yield a higher level of welfare than the case even without housing bubbles. Finally, we calibrate the model to China. Our quantitative results show that the optimal tax rate is about 23 percent, and social welfare is significantly improved with such a tax policy.
R21|Housing, Debt and the Economy: A Tale of Two Countries|In housing affordability levels and volatility, there could hardly be a greater contrast than between the UK and Germany. Differences in history, institutions and policies are explored in this paper. Residential housing supply has been far more expansionary in Germany and mortgage credit more tightly regulated. A sensibly regulated rental market and stable German house prices have combined to leave the rental sector with over half of tenures. Policy failures in the UK have resulted in widening intergenerational inequality, increased social exclusion, adversely affected productivity and growth and raised the risk of financial instability. Policy lessons are drawn for the UK, which go far beyond the remit of the immediately responsible Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.
R21|The bedroom tax|Housing subsidies for low income households are a central pillar of many welfare systems, but an expensive one. This paper investigates the consequences of an unusual policy aimed at reducing the burden of these subsidies by rationing tenants’ use of space. Specifically, we study a policy introduced by the UK Government in 2013 which substantially cut housing benefits for tenants deemed to have a ‘spare’ bedroom – based on specific criteria related to household composition. Our study is the first to evaluate the impacts of the policy on its target group considering a range of outcomes. To do so, we use a difference-in-difference methodology that compares the observed behaviour of the treated households relative to a control group determined from the details of the policy rules. We find that – as expected – the treated group experienced losses to housing benefit and overall income. Although the policy was not successful in encouraging residential moves, it did incentivise people who moved to downsize – suggesting some success in terms of one of the policy goals, namely reducing ‘underoccupancy’ in the long run. We find no statistically significant effects on households’ food consumption, savings or employment outcomes, despite the associated income reductions. Finally, we find some evidence of a reduction in self-reported satisfaction though this effect is not precisely estimated.
R21|Does Gentrification Displace Poor Households? An 'Identification-Via-Interaction' Approach|My theoretical model motivates an 'identification-via-interaction' (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991-2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
R21|The bedroom tax|Housing subsidies for low income households are a central pillar of many welfare systems, but an expensive one. This paper investigates the consequences of an unusual policy aimed at reducing the cost of these subsidies by rationing tenants’ use of space. Specifically, we study a policy introduced by the UK Government in 2013, which substantially cut housing benefits for tenants deemed to have a ‘spare’ bedroom – based on specific criteria related to household composition. Our study is the first to evaluate the impacts of the policy on its target group using a strategy that compares the observed changes in behaviour of the treated households to those of a control group. The treatment and control groups are defined by the detail of the policy rules. We find that – as expected – the treated group loses housing benefits and overall income. Although the policy was not successful in encouraging residential moves (despite efforts to make mobility within the social sector easier), it did incentivise people who moved to downsize – suggesting some success in terms of one of the policy goals, namely reducing under-occupancy. The policy did not incentivise people to work more and we find no statistically significant effects on households’ food consumption or saving behaviour. The implication of our findings is that this type of policy has limited power to change housing consumption or employment in the short run. While it might reduce the costs of housing subsidies to the taxpayer, it does so by imposing a direct financial cost to social tenants unable or unwilling to downsize.
R21|The economic impacts of constraining second home investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the ‘Swiss Second Home Initiative’, which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R21|History dependence in the housing market|Using the universe of housing transactions in England and Wales in the last twenty years, we document a robust pattern of history dependence in housing markets. Sale prices and selling probabilities today are affected by aggregate house prices prevailing in the period in which properties were previously bought. We investigate the causes of history dependence, with its quantitative implications for the post-crisis recovery of the housing market. To do so we complement our analysis with administrative data on mortgages and online house listings, which we match to actual sales. We find that high leverage in the pre-crisis period and anchoring (or reference dependence) both contributed to the collapse and slow recovery of the volume of housing transactions. We find no asymmetric effects of anchoring to previous prices on current transactions; in other words, loss aversion does not appear to play a role over and above simple anchoring.
R21|Here Lives a Wealthy Man: Price Rigidity and Predictability in Luxury Housing Markets|We use novel and unique data to study the effect of price changes in the market for luxury and middle class homes. We find that luxury home sales respond less to price changes than the middle-class home sales; in the market for luxury homes, past prices affect current prices; luxury home prices persist; and prices of luxury homes are stickier than prices of middle-class homes. Recent macroeconomic models predict that housing markets can have counter-cyclical effect, if home prices are flexible. Our findings imply that home prices, especially luxury home prices, may not be flexible enough to generate such effect.
R21|Rental Housing Affordability in the Southeast: Data from the Sixth District|Housing data are available for most large metropolitan regions in the Atlanta Fed's Southeast region. However, many midsized metropolitan, micropolitan, and nonmetro areas lack detailed data on rental housing affordability and housing supply needs by income level. These data are important for state and local governments, affordable housing developers, and housing advocates to inform housing policy. Therefore, the Atlanta Fed partnered with the Shimberg Center at the University of Florida to analyze census data using a methodology developed for Shimberg's periodic Rental Market Study for the state of Florida (Shimberg Center for Housing Studies, 2013, 2016). This paper covers the six states that are fully or partially in the Atlanta Fed's District: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee. {{p}} In this paper, the authors provide a regional snapshot of housing affordability and the availability of affordable rental housing units at several scales for the Atlanta Fed's District, using data from the 2015 American Community Survey (ACS). They include figures for city, metropolitan, and state areas as well as regional figures for nonmetro areas. The authors segment the data by household income using the area median income (AMI) of each respective region. They provide estimates for renter households within five major income brackets: extremely low income (0 to 30 percent AMI), very low income (30.01 to 50 percent AMI), low income (50.01 to 80 percent AMI), moderate income (80.01 to 120 percent AMI), and upper income (more than 120 percent AMI). {{p}} The authors use two measures of housing affordability: 1) the share of cost-burdened households and 2) affordable and available rental housing supply. Metrics include the percent of cost-burdened renter households (people who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing) and extremely cost-burdened renter households (people who pay more than 50 percent of their income on housing). Metrics also include the deficit or surplus in rental units that are both available and affordable to households at each of the above area median-income brackets. These measures tend to correlate, with high percentages of cost-burdened households associated with significant deficits in affordable and available units for low- and moderate-income households.
R21|The Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Local Home Values|This paper simulates changes to neighborhood home prices resulting from reforms to tax preferences in the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). The simulation uses federal tax data summarized at a fine geography to impute homeowner rents at the zip code level across six income classes. Employing a user cost framework, I model rents as a function of prices under the old tax law and under the TCJA. While the average price impact of the TCJA is found to be −5.7 percent, local effects range from 0 to −23 percent across zip codes. Variation across income class is also large. Simulations by income class suggest that the most severe declines in price occur for upper middle-income households ($100,000–$200,000). The paper also simulates partial versions of the TCJA that omit different features of the law that affect housing preference. I find that the higher standard deductions in the new law are the largest driver of price declines.
R21|Can Wealth Explain Neighborhood Sorting by Race and Income?|Why do high-income blacks live in neighborhoods with characteristics similar to those of low-income whites? One plausible explanation is wealth, since homeownership requires some wealth, and black households hold less wealth than white households at all levels of income. We present evidence against this hypothesis by showing that wealth does not predict sorting into neighborhood quality once race and income are taken into account. An alternative explanation is that the scarcity of high-quality black neighborhoods increases the cost of living in a high-quality neighborhood for black households with even weak race preferences. We present evidence in favor of this hypothesis by showing that sorting into neighborhood racial composition is similar across wealth levels conditional on race and income.
R21|Technological Innovation in Mortgage Underwriting and the Growth in Credit: 1985-2015|The application of information technology to finance, or “fintech,” is expected to revolutionize many aspects of borrowing and lending in the future, but technology has been reshaping consumer and mortgage lending for many years. During the 1990s computerization allowed mortgage lenders to reduce loan-processing times and largely replace human-based assessment of credit risk with default predictions generated by sophisticated empirical models. Debt-to-income ratios at origination add little to the predictive power of these models, so the new automated underwriting systems allowed higher debt-to-income ratios than previous underwriting guidelines would have typically accepted. In this way, technology brought about an exogenous change in lending standards, which helped raise the homeownership rate and encourage the conversion of rental properties to owner-occupied ones, but did not have large effects on housing prices. Technological innovation in mortgage underwriting may have allowed the 2000s housing boom to grow, however, because it enhanced the ability of both borrowers and lenders to act on optimistic beliefs about future house-price growth.
R21|Can More Housing Supply Solve the Affordability Crisis? Evidence from a Neighborhood Choice Model|We estimate a neighborhood choice model using 2014 American Community Survey data to investigate the degree to which new housing supply can improve housing affordability. In the model, equilibrium rental rates are determined so that the number of households choosing each neighborhood is equal to the number of housing units in each neighborhood. We use the estimated model to simulate how rental rates would respond to an exogenous increase in the number of housing units in a neighborhood. We find that the rent elasticity is low, and thus marginal reductions in supply constraints alone are unlikely to meaningfully reduce rent burdens. The reason for this result appears to be that rental rates are more closely determined by the level of amenities in a neighborhood—as in a Rosen-Roback spatial equilibrium framework—than by the supply of housing.
R21|Rural Affordable Rental Housing : Quantifying Need, Reviewing Recent Federal Support, and Assessing the Use of Low Income Housing Tax Credits in Rural Areas|Recently, there has been significant interest in the high levels of rental cost burden being experienced across the United States. Much of this scholarship has focused on rental cost burdens in larger urban areas, or at the national level, and has not explored differences in the prevalence of rental cost burden in urban versus rural communities. In this paper, I find that rental cost burdens are a challenge facing both urban and rural communities. However, despite the need for affordable rental housing in rural communities identified, I find the amount of resources made available by the federal government to address this challenge are at a low point relative to recent history. My analysis of federal resource availability also finds one program has been an important and resilient tool for the development and preservation of affordable housing in urban and rural communities: the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program. Congress delegated much of the LIHTC program’s implementation to the states, whereby states choose many of the factors to prioritize when allocating LIHTCs to specific projects. Therefore, I explored each state’s qualified allocation plan to identify whether specific factors make it more or less likely rural areas will receive a “fair share” of LIHTC allocations based on their need relative to non-rural areas. My analysis did not identify a specific factor or set of factors that systematically increased or decreased the likelihood of allocations being proportionate to the relative needs of a state’s rural communities. However, I did identify a number of factors that by their very design appeared to affect positively or negatively the likelihood that specific types of projects or project locations would receive allocations. Interviews with industry stakeholders confirmed that many of these factors are affecting developer decisions and may be unintentionally disadvantaging smaller, more remote rural projects.
R21|Search and Credit Frictions in the Housing Market|This paper develops a model of the housing market with search and credit frictions. The interaction between the two frictions gives rise to a novel channel through which the financial sector affects prices and liquidity in the housing market. Furthermore, an interesting feature of the model is that both frictions combined lead to multiple equilibria. A numerical exercise suggests that credit shocks have a relatively larger impact on mortgage debt and liquidity than on prices.
R21|Évolutions démographiques et marché de l’immobilier neuf|Using household survey data from the ?Enqu?tes Logement? collected from 1973 to 2013, this article studies the effects of demography on the new-build housing market dynamics in France, as well as in the Paris Region, Provence-Alpes-C?te d?Azur, and in coastal regions and in landlocked regions. After computing how frequently individuals buy a new-build house for their primary residence by age, the effects of behavioral changes and demographic changes (population size and age structure) on the market dynamics are evaluated. The article analyzes the impact of population ageing and provides projections on the needs for home construction by 2060. Results suggest that while the changes in population size are in favor of acquisitions all the period long, the age structure becomes an adverse factor from the beginning of the nineties onwards. The decomposition shows that these effects are region-specific.
R21|Inequality, educational choice, and public school quality in income‐mixing communities|Why, in some urban communities, do rich and poor households cohabit while, in others, we observe sorting by income? Does income inequality impact residential choices and community segregation? To answer these questions, I develop a two‐community general equilibrium framework of school quality, residential choice, and tax decision with probabilistic voting. The model predicts that an equilibrium with income mixing in which households segregate across public schools and low‐ and high‐income households choose to live in the same community might emerge in highly unequal societies. In this particular equilibrium, income‐mixing communities perform lower public school quality than communities populated by middle‐income households. The effect of inequality on the quality of public schooling in the income‐mixing community is ambiguous and depends on the relative endowments of private goods, such as housing, in the two communities.
R21|The impact of the 2014 increase in the real estate transfer taxes on the French housing market|[eng] This paper estimates the effects of an increase in the share of the real estate transfer taxes (RETT) going to the French départements from 3.80% to 4.50%. Not all the départements voted the RETT increase on the same date, which is the starting point of a natural experiment. Using a difference-in-differences design, we estimate two main effects. (1) An anticipation effect, one month before the implementation of the reform, in order to avoid the RETT increase. (2) A retention effect in the post-reform period. In the end, the net effect (retention minus anticipation) corresponds to an average drop in transactions of around 6% over the first three months after the reform, that is, approximately 15,000 transactions lost at national level. If we find a short term effect of the reform, we do not find evidence of a medium- or long-term effect.
R21|Urban spatial structure, transport-related emissions and welfare|In this paper, we study the effects of urban design on pollution and welfare. We build a theoretical model of residential choices with pollution externalities arising from commuting, where the location of jobs within the city and the demand for housing are endogenous. We show that a polycentric city is desirable from welfare and ecological perspective, provided that travel speed and/or the number of roads directly connected with the city center are sufficiently high. The spatial extension of cities remains the critical variable to curb transport-related urban pollution.
R21|Neighbor discrimination theory and evidence from the French rental market|This paper describes a novel concept of customer discrimination in the housing market, neighbor discrimination. We develop a matching model with ethnic externalities in which landlords differ in the number of apartments they own within the same building. Larger landlords are more likely to discriminate only if some tenants are prejudiced against the minority group. Observing that minority tenants are less likely than majority group tenants to live in a building with a single large landlord is thus evidence of neighbor discrimination. We show empirically that African immigrants in France are significantly less likely to live in a building owned by a single landlord. This increases the probability that African immigrants live in public housing in localities with more single-landlord private apartment blocks.
R21|Fundamental Drivers of Existing Home Sales in Canada|Existing home sales’ share of Canada’s economic pie has been rising in recent years, and variation around this trend has resulted in outsized contributions to changes in real gross domestic product (GDP). In this context, we use a cointegration framework to estimate the level of resale activity across the Canadian provinces that is supported by fundamentals—namely, full-time employment, housing affordability and migration flows—to help look through the volatility. The results suggest that, over longer horizons, resales activity and these fundamentals share a stable relationship, although deviations are sometimes persistent. We also find a robust and positive relationship between house price growth and deviations of existing home sales from fundamentals. While predicting quarterly changes in resales remains very difficult, provincial models improve upon national and naïve benchmarks and provide a useful framework for identifying risks to GDP growth that stem directly from the resale market.
R21|Housing Price Network Effects from Public Transit Investment: Evidence from Vancouver|In this paper, we estimate the effect on housing prices of the expansion of the Vancouver SkyTrain rapid transit network during the period 2001–11. We extend the canonical residential sorting equilibrium framework to include commuting time in the household utility function. We estimate household preferences in the sorting model using confidential micro data and geographic information systems (GIS) data on the SkyTrain network. Using these preference estimates and observed data for 2001, we simulate the equilibrium effects of expanding the SkyTrain. In our counterfactual analysis, the SkyTrain expansion increases housing prices not only in neighborhoods where the expansion occurred, but also in those with access to pre-existing segments of the network. We show how these network housing price effects depend on household commuting patterns, and discuss the implications of our results for targeted taxation policies designed to capture the housing price appreciation stemming from a public transit investment.
R21|House prices in local markets in Italy: dynamics, levels and the role of urban agglomerations|The national pattern of house price dynamics masks considerable heterogeneity across local areas and markets; disparities are even higher looking at house price levels. In this paper we describe these structural differences across Italy, with particular focus on the role of metropolitan areas over the last 50 years. Our analysis shows that housing cycles differ across geographical areas and urban agglomerations both in depth and length. Cycles reflect metropolises’ price dynamics in all the macro-areas except the South, where the biggest cities and the other towns exhibit similar dynamics. Geographical disparities are even stronger if we turn to price levels: following a period of relative convergence in the second half of the 1990s, the gap between areas widened again. Finally, using data covering the last decade, we analyse house price heterogeneity across areas, including the hinterland of metropolises, taking into account the contribution of a set of relevant socio-economic characteristics, the first one being income, to the distribution of house prices.
R21|The Duration in the Market of New Housing in Mexico|In this article we study the market duration of new housing built by developers in Mexico between 2013 and 2015. In particular, this document discusses whether the physical characteristics of housing, state of location, date put on sale, time of construction, the initial price and the size of the developer have any effect on the duration of new houses in the market. We use a survival analysis Cox model. The most important results indicate that the probability of a new house being sold between t and t+1 (hazard rate) decreases with time and, in general, is lower for units of larger size, those that took much time on the construction process, and those constructed by small developers.
R21|Housing finance in France in 2017|Boosted by very low interest rates, despite a very slight rise during the year, activity in the residential real-estate market remained very dynamic in 2017, as shown by the 15% growth in existing home sales. In addition, prices for both new and existing properties remained on an upward trend, rising by 3.7% and 3.9% respectively, while the latter market segment recorded price increases of 8.6% and 4.9% in Paris and the Île-de-France region respectively. Reflecting this favourable environment, annual new housing loans extended by French banks (EUR 272.1 billion in 2017) continued to grow at a sustained pace, especially in the first half of 2017, before declining in the second half. According to monthly monitoring data collected by the General Secretariat of the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR), new lending excluding loan transfers and renegotiations, increased by 21% in 2017. Unlike last year, however, the share of loan transfers gradually declined over the year, from a peak at 37% of new lending in January 2017 to 8% in December 2017. Continuing its trend of the second half of 2017, new residential lending slowed sharply at the start of 2018: as a result of the fall in loan transfers and renegotiations, the 12-month cumulated new lending was down by 36.5% in April. In this context, the year-on-year growth rate of outstanding loans, which had reached 6.3% in October 2017, also gradually slowed: at end-April 2018, it stood at only 5.5%. As in previous years, banks’ risk exposure on housing loans in France remained contained: ? Due to the continuing fall in interest rates, fixed-rate loans accounted for almost all new lending (98.7%) and an ever-increasing share of outstanding loans (up 2.7 percentage points (pts) to 93.4%); a rise in interest rates would therefore have a very limited impact on borrowers' credit risk; ? Banks still appear relatively well-shielded against a price shock, even though the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio for outstanding loans deteriorated slightly by 0.3 pp to 72.3%; ? The vast majority of outstanding loans are secured (96.8%), by guarantees that protect the banks, such as sureties; ? Lastly, the ratio of non-performing loans fell for the second time since the financial crisis, down 6 basis points (bps) to 1.43%; in addition, the cost of risk as a ratio of outstanding loans decreased for the third consecutive year, by 1.4 bps to 4.3 bps However, several developments call for continued vigilance: ? Despite the stabilisation of loan rates, even at very low levels, the effect of the rise in prices and resulting tensions on households' purchasing power could no longer be offset. Even though borrower solvency remains the main criterion of analysis, rather than the value of assets financed, certain lending standards applied by French banks continued to deteriorate in 2017: the average loan amount (up 4.9 % to EUR 161.4 thousand) and the debt ratio (up 2.2 months to 4.9 years) thus reached record highs; the initial loan maturity, which increased by 4 months to 19 years, and the debt service ratio, which rose slightly by 0.2 pp to 29.7%, were still below their respective highs recorded in 2008 (20 years) and 2009 (31.6%); ? Despite the stabilisation of the average liability cost and the overhead rate, the net margin ratio, as measured by the ACPR, continued to deteriorate in 2017 due to the continued rapid decline in the average interest rate on outstanding housing loans; this decrease in the profitability of housing loans is particularly problematic as it is no longer, since the start of 2018, offset by the large volumes of loan transfers and renegotiation fees that banks had benefited from in 2017. In addition, the availability of the income derived from borrower insurance, generally obtained from the lending bank when setting up the loan, could be threatened by the adoption of the Bourquin amendment, which now makes it possible to change contract every year.
R21|Estimation of Long-term Housing Demand and Related Housing Construction Investment in North Korea (in Korean)|This paper estimates long-term housing demand and the related housing construction investment in North Korea, to ascertain whether the growth in housing construction investment, which is considered an important part of private economic activity in North Korea, will continue in the future. First, long-term housing demand is estimated based on the Mankiw-Weil model. We then calculate the demographics-driven aggregate housing demand in North Korea, by estimating individuals¡¯ demands for housing using age-based survey data on North Korean defectors, and applying it in view of the age structure of North Korea¡¯s population. According to these estimates, the pace of increase in demographics-driven housing demand shows a gradual slowdown, from an annual average of 0.6% to 0.9% between 2001 and 2020, to 0.3% between 2021 and 2030. This paper next forecasts housing demand and the scale of housing construction in North Korea based on the assumption that the country will pursue external openness on full scale from 2021, and that this will lead to considerable growth in income. If external openness leads to a declining mortality rate and increases in individual demand, then an additional 0.6%p (for the low growth scenario) to 1.8%p (for the high growth scenario) in the annual rate of growth in total housing demand is likely, compared to the baseline scenario. The related housing construction investment is anticipated to show additional increases of 12.3 million pyeong (1 pyeong ¡Ö 3.3§³) (low growth scenario) to 34.1 million pyeong (high growth scenario) in terms of area, and of 28 trillion won (low growth) to 77 trillion won (high growth) in terms of amount during the 10 years from 2021. This suggests that, if North Korea¡¯s efforts to open to the world reach full swing, housing demand is likely to grow significantly and more housing construction investment will be needed than is currently projected.
R21|In brief...The bedroom tax|The 'bedroom tax' - a UK government policy introduced in 2013 that cut housing benefits for social tenants deemed to have a 'spare' bedroom - saved some public money, according to research by Steve Gibbons and colleagues. But the policy added further strain to the finances of people who were already disadvantaged. Their study, which examines whether the policy achieved its objectives and how the targeted families reacted, finds that the burden of the bedroom tax fell on social tenants who were unwilling or unable to move.
R21|The Bedroom Tax|Housing subsidies for low income households are a central pillar of many welfare systems, but an expensive one. This paper investigates the consequences of an unusual policy aimed at reducing the burden of these subsidies by rationing tenants' use of space. Specifically, we study a policy introduced by the UK Government in 2013 which substantially cut housing benefits for tenants deemed to have a 'spare' bedroom - based on specific criteria related to household composition. Our study is the first to evaluate the impacts of the policy on its target group considering a range of outcomes. To do so, we use a difference-in-difference methodology that compares the observed behaviour of the treated households relative to a control group determined from the details of the policy rules. We find that - as expected - the treated group experienced losses to housing benefit and overall income. Although the policy was not successful in encouraging residential moves, it did incentivise people who moved to downsize - suggesting some success in terms of one of the policy goals, namely reducing 'under-occupancy' in the long run. We find no statistically significant effects on households' food consumption, savings or employment outcomes, despite the associated income reductions. Finally, we find some evidence of a reduction in self-reported satisfaction though this effect is not precisely estimated.
R21|Does gentrification displace poor households? An ‘identification-via-interaction’ approach|My theoretical model motivates an ‘identification-via-interaction’ (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991–2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
R21|The Economic Impacts of Constraining Home Investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the 'Swiss Second Home Initiative', which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R21|Home Ownership and Monetary Policy Transmission|We present empirical evidence on the heterogeneity in monetary policy transmission across countries with different home ownership rates. We use household-level data together with shocks to the policy rate identified from high-frequency data. We find that housing tenure reacts more strongly to unexpected changes in the policy rate in Germany and Switzerland - the OECD countries with the lowest home ownership rates - compared with existing evidence for the U.S. An unexpected decrease in the policy rate by 25 basis points increases the home ownership rate by 0.8 percentage points in Germany and by 0.6 percentage points in Switzerland. The response of non-housing consumption in Switzerland is less heterogeneous across renters and mortgagors, and has a different pattern across age groups than in the U.S. We discuss economic explanations for these findings and implications for monetary policy.
R21|Causes of Vacancies in the Housing Market – A Literature Review|We review the existing literature on the causes of vacancies in the housing market. First, we present a detailed overview of theoretical approaches that may explain the mechanisms causing vacancies under the assumptions of a standard market model, the search and matching theory and behavioral economics. Concerning the latter, we propose a new framework to explain vacancies in the housing market in the context of prospect theory which could be extended by future research. Second, we formulate hypotheses based on these theories regarding the causes and the extent of vacancies. Third, we evaluate the validity of the hypotheses by referring to the existing empirical literature while comparing the data, samples and methods employed in the various studies. The main findings of our literature review are (1) that there is considerable room to extend existing theoretical models and (2) that some hypotheses have either been investigated by the empirical literature only to a limited degree or have not been investigated at all. We also suggest that (3) a social welfare analysis that takes the specific type of vacancy into account is highly relevant for housing policy decisions.
R21|Short-term rentals and the housing market: Quasi-experimental evidence from Airbnb in Los Angeles|Online short-term housing rental platforms such as Airbnb have grown spectacularly in recent years. 18 out 88 cities in Los Angeles County have severely restricted short-term rentals by adopting Home Sharing Ordinances. We apply a panel regression-discontinuity design around the cities' borders. Ordinances reduced listings by 50% and residential property prices by 3%. Difference-in-difference estimates show that rents also decreased by 3%. These estimates imply large effects of Airbnb on property values in areas attractive to tourists (e.g. by 14% within 5km of Downtown LA).
R21|Ethnic and Gender Discrimination in Rental Housing Market, Evidence from Meta-Analysis of Correspondence Tests, 2006-2017|We present a large review of all studies that tested discrimination against minority ethnic groups in the rental housing market with the correspondence tests method. Moreover, we perform a meta-analysis of correspondence tests from 25 separate studies conducted in OECD countries between 2006 and 2017, containing more than 300 estimates of effects and representing a total of over 110 000 emails sent to private landlords or real estate agents. In addition to presenting overall results of recent studies, we focus on subgroups of specific correspondence tests in order to highlight the differences across ethnicity, gender, type of landlords, procedure, continent, and type of information provided in applications. We provide evidence that both gender and ethnic discrimination occur in the rental housing market in OECD countries, such that minority-sounding names and male names applicants are discriminated (especially for Arab/Muslim applicants). We show the existence of interactions between ethnic and gender discrimination: gender discrimination is larger for Minority-sounding names than for Majority-sounding names. Thus, ethnic Majority women are the most favored on this market in OECD countries while Minority men are the most disadvantaged. Moreover, we highlight that this discrimination mainly comes from agents’ preferences rather than statistical discrimination. Finally, it seems that real estate agents discriminate significantly less minority applicants than private landlords do. These results are robust to the estimation method used (random effects, fixed-effects and unrestricted weighted least squares methods).
R21|Does Housing Vintage Matter? Exploring the Historic City Center of Amsterdam|A home is typically thought of as a bundle of land and structure. Land is supplied inelastically and is non-reproducible. Land values are therefore affected by a number of demand factors. Conceptually, structures are easily produced, and thus are supplied elastically. Under elastic supply, it is reasonable to assume that replacement cost should be equivalent to the value of the structure for new properties. Here, we examine how particular structure characteristics may introduce heterogeneity into these demand and supply relationships. In other words, how do structure vintages influence price dynamics. Older vintages are not easily reproducible leading to the value of an older vintage to potentially diverge from its replacement cost. To test our hypotheses, we employ a nonlinear model in a Bayesian structural timeseries approach that explicitly disentangles structure and land values to identify vintage effects separately from physical deterioration and land values. We find large differences in price dynamics between four distinct vintages of Amsterdam old city center apartments. Between 1999 - 2016, new construction had an average return of 1.7%, with a standard deviation of 2.4%. On the other hand, properties build in the 19th century had an average return of 3.6% with a standard deviation of 6.1%, during the same period.
R21|'We'll Always Have Paris': Out-of-Country Buyers in the Housing Market|This paper studies the investment decisions and price impact of non-resident foreigners in the Paris housing market, employing unique micro-level transaction data over the period 1992–2016. We find that these “out-of-country” buyers generally purchase relatively small but high-quality properties in desirable neighborhoods and in areas with high ratios of compatriots. Ceteris paribus, they pay higher prices, hold for longer, and realize lower capital gains, highlighting the importance of information asymmetries and search costs in residential real estate. Crucially, however, out-of-country buyers’ quality-controlled purchase prices are also positively affected by home-country economic conditions, which suggests that global variation in the willingness-to-pay for real estate affects pricing in hotspots such as Paris. When instrumenting out-of-country demand, we find that it has pushed up prices of ex ante less valuable properties that have nonetheless been exposed to such demand.
R21|Macroeconomic and demographic determinants of residential property prices in Malaysia|This paper studies the relationship between residential property prices and macroeconomic and demographic determinants in Malaysia. In the years following the Asian financial crisis, property prices in Malaysia rose substantially, resulting in an affordability crisis and ultimately policy responses to the problem. Using unit root, Johansen-Juselius cointegration, VECM-based Granger causality tests and variance decomposition, and considering quarterly data that covers 2000-2015 period, we established that residential property price growth is principally driven by strong demographic performance and population growth and is backed by the low interest rate environment and rising consumer prices. Household income and level of GDP do not appear to contribute to property price growth. Certain distortions and asymmetries in the Malaysian real estate markets are documented: oversupply in the higher price segment of the market coupled with the lack of affordable housing in the lower price segment; household income growth lagging behind GDP and property price growth, thereby dampening housing demand; growing rental markets in major urban areas as a result of the affordability crisis; and a quality mismatch between buyers’ preferences and housing supply.
R21|Tax Policy and Toxic Housing Bubbles in China|This paper explores the effects of a government tax policy in a growth model with economic transition and toxic housing bubbles applied to China. Such a policy combines taxing entrepreneurs with a one-time redistribution to workers in the same period. Under the tax policy, we find that the welfare improvement for workers is non-monotonic. In particular, there exists an optimal tax at which social welfare is maximized. Moreover, we consider the welfare effects of setting the tax at its optimum. We show that the tax policy can be welfare-enhancing, compare to the case without active policies. The optimal tax may also yield a higher level of welfare than the case even without housing bubbles. Finally, we calibrate the model to China. Our quantitative results show that the optimal tax rate is about 23 percent, and social welfare is signicantly improved with such a tax policy.
R21|Delivering Social Housing: An Overview of the Housing Crisis in Dublin|This paper explores the responses to the housing crisis in Dublin, Ireland, by analysing recent housing policies promoted to prevent family homelessness. I argue that private rental market subsides have played an increasing role in the provision of social housing in Ireland. Instead of policies that facilitate the construction of affordable housing or the direct construction of social housing, current housing policies have addressed the social housing crisis by encouraging and relying excessively on the private market to deliver housing. The housing crisis has challenged governments to increase the social housing supply, but the implementation of a larger plan to deliver social housing has not been effective, as is evidenced by the rapid decline of both private and social housing supply and the increasing number of homeless people in Dublin
R21|Intratemporal Substitution between Housing and Nondurable Consumption: Evidence from Reinvestment in Housing Stock|I investigate empirically the intratemporal dependence between nondurable consumption and housing. Using the data on maintenance expenditures and self-assessed house value, I separate the measure of housing stock and house prices, and use these data for estimation of the model, which allows for testing whether consumption and housing are characterized by intratemporal nonseparability in the contemporaneous utility. I find evidence in favor of a substitution mechanism between housing and total nondurable consumption. A similar conclusion is reached for some separate consumption categories, such as food, transport, clothing, vacations, and entertainment.
R21|Effect of Aging on Urban Land Prices in China|This paper investigates the effect of demographic changes on land prices in urban China using an Overlapping Generation (OLG) model. The model suggests that the rapid rise in land prices could be explained by the rise in per capita income and demographic changes. This finding is validated by fitting the historical data of China. We then simulate land price dynamics for China from 2000 to 2100. The simulation indicates that the rate of rising in land prices is softening. From 2035 to 2055, the effect of demographic changes on urban land prices in China will be close to zero. After 2055, the effect will turn to negative until the end of this century; however, a meltdown is unlikely.
R21|Effect of Aging on Housing Prices: A Perspective from an Overlapping Generation Model|This paper investigates the effect of aging on housing prices. It provides a theoretical explanation to address the on-going debate about this issue. The analysis demonstrates that aging has divergent effects on housing prices, depending on the net effects of a fall in fertility vis-à-vis a rise in longevity on demand for housing. In addition, the results suggest that aging could cause a turning point in the price dynamics. Before this turning point, aging would boost the prices; however, after this point, the prices are depressed because of aging. Furthermore, inequality of household utility is enlarged during the aging processes.
R21|Time-varying congestion tolling and urban spatial structure|This study develops a model in which heterogeneous commuters choose their residential locations and departure times from home in a monocentric city with a bottleneck located at the entrance to the central business district (CBD). We systematically analyze the model by utilizing the properties of complementarity problems. This analysis shows that, although expanding the capacity of the bottleneck generates a Pareto improvement when commuters do not relocate, it can lead to an unbalanced distribution of benefits among commuters: commuters residing closer to the CBD gain and commuters residing farther from the CBD lose. Furthermore, we reveal that an optimal time-varying congestion toll alters the urban spatial structure. We then demonstrate through examples that (a) if rich commuters are flexible, congestion tolling makes cities denser and more compact; (b) if rich commuters are highly inflexible, tolling causes cities to become less dense and to spatially expand; and (c) in both cases, imposing a toll helps rich commuters but hurts poor commuters.
R21|Housing Decision with Divorce Risk|We build a realistically calibrated life-cycle model of housing decisions under divorce risk. As observed in the data, our model predicts the recent increase in divorce rates leads to reduced homeownership rates. The event of a divorce negatively affects homeownership, and this effect is long-lasting. The risk of a divorce triggers a precautionary savings motive. However, this motive is weaker when individuals can invest in owner-occupied homes because homeowners’ higher savings partially substitute for precautionary savings. When young, the larger asset accumulation due to divorce-risk induced precautionary savings enables households to buy homes earlier, whereas the presence of transaction costs leads to reduced homeownership for middle-aged and older households when divorce risk goes up.
R21|Effect of an increase in longevity on housing prices: Evidence from a panel data|We test the effect of an increase in longevity on housing prices. The results show that workers and retirees react differently towards the impact of longer lifespans, and thus the housing price is influenced by the relative weight of the retirees vis-à-vis workers in the total population.
R21|Effect of aging on housing prices: evidence from a panel data|We empirically test the effect of ageing on housing prices. Our analysis shows that a decline in the fertility rate and an increase in longevity – the two main causes of an ageing population – have divergent effects on housing prices. This empirical finding helps us to reconcile a conflict which has lasted for 30 years in literature. We show that a decline in the fertility rate generally lowers housing prices because there are fewer workers in the population. At the same time, the workers and retirees react differently towards the impact of longer lifespans. In particular, the workers are urged to purchase more houses as a form of of saving and thus raise the prices, while the retirees tend to sell a greater fraction of the housing for extra funding. The conclusions correspond well with the Life Cycle Hypothesis and are drawn by using a semi-parametric method on an international panel data.
R21|Here Lives a Wealthy Man: Price Rigidity and Predictability in Luxury Housing Markets|We use novel and unique data to study the effect of price changes in the market for luxury and middle class homes. We find that luxury home sales respond less to price changes than the middle-class home sales; in the market for luxury homes, past prices affect current prices; luxury home prices persist; and prices of luxury homes are stickier than prices of middle-class homes. Recent macroeconomic models predict that housing markets can have counter-cyclical effect, if home prices are flexible. Our findings imply that home prices, especially luxury home prices, may not be flexible enough to generate such effect.
R21|Actual Condition Of Vacant Houses And Vacancy Of The Condominium In Japanese Local Cities? Central Areas|In Japan, decline of the central urban area due to the suburbanization of various functions associated with the progress of motorization is posing to be a great challenge. In addition, in recent years, an increase in vacant houses has become an issue all over Japan due to population decrease and the aging population. There is also concern that the number of vacant houses will increase in central urban areas. In this research, we grasped the actual conditions of vacant houses and vacancy of the condominium in central urban areas of 35 local cities in Japan and analyzed location trends in the target 5 cities about vacant houses and 35 cities about vacancy of condominiums. We investigated the vacant houses and vacancy of condominiums in each central urban area and analyzed the location trend of vacant houses and vacancy of condominiums about the following points; ?Distance to station?, ?Road contact condition?, ?Floor area ratio designation?, ?Price? and ?age of a building?. We can mention to the tendency of vacant houses location is the house which is located far from station, have contact with narrow road, and have relatively small building area. About Vacancy of the condominium it is not related with a price but vacancy rate of condominium is high at the condominiums constructed in bubble economy period.
R21|The Cost of Agglomeration: Land Prices in Cities|We develop a new methodology to estimate the elasticity of urban costs with respect to city population using French land price data. Our preferred estimate, which handles a number of estimation concerns, stands at 0.041. Our approach also yields a number of intermediate outputs of independent interest such as a distance gradient for land prices and the elasticity of unit land prices with respect to city population. For the latter, our preferred estimate is 0.72.
R21|Picture or Playground: Valuing Coastal Amenities|As the world continues to urbanise, understanding housing market preferences can help planners accommodate the growth of cities. Housing is a bundle of both structural attributes and locational amenities, with “blue space” coastal amenities including both aesthetic (picture) and recreational (playground) services. We examine the effect of these different “blue space” coastal amenities, using both a novel measure of views, suitable for large datasets, and a dataset of almost 500,000 real estate listings, covering both sale and rental markets in Ireland for the period 2006-2017. We find that proximity to beaches and similar shorelines is rewarded in both sale and rental markets, as is the breadth and depth of sea-views. There is no evidence that urban sale or rental price premiums are larger (or smaller) than rural ones. However, there is clear evidence that sale price premiums are typically larger than their rental equivalents. In addition, sale price premiums are larger in times of falling prices, a finding consistent with “property ladder” effects in tighter markets.
R21|Gentrification through the sale of rental housing? Evidence from Amsterdam|This paper analyzes the impact of the sale of rental housing in Amsterdam on the local housing market. This increases the supply of owner-occupied housing, but can also contribute to gentrification associated with the inflow of different household groups. Earlier literature focused on the former effect and reported a negative price effect. We take a fresh look at the issue by considering the sale of private as well as social rental housing, allow for differing time trends within the municipality, controlling for area fixed effects, distinguishing between short and long-term impacts and addressing endogeneity of the sale of rental housing. The main finding is a robust gentrifying effect of the sale of private rental housing in the core area of Amsterdam.
R21|Housing Market Dynamics with Search Frictions|This paper develops a business cycle model of the housing market with search frictions and entry of both buyers and sellers. The housing market exhibits a well-established cyclical component, which features three stylized facts: prices move in the same direction as sales and the number of houses for sale, but opposite to the time it takes to sell a house. These stylized facts imply that in the data vacancies and the number of buyers are positively correlated, i.e. that the Beveridge Curve is upward sloping. A baseline search and matching model of the housing market is unable to match these stylized facts because it inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge Curve. With free entry of both buyers and sellers, our model reproduces the positive correlation between prices, sales, and housing vacancies, and matches the stylized facts qualitatively and quantitatively.
R21|Search and Credit Frictions in the Housing Market|This paper develops a model of the housing market with search and credit frictions. The interaction between the two frictions gives rise to a novel channel through which the financial sector affects prices and liquidity in the housing market. Furthermore, an interesting feature of the model is that both frictions combined lead to multiple equilibria. A numerical exercise suggests that credit shocks have a relatively larger impact on mortgage debt and liquidity than on prices.
R21|Credit Constraints, House Prices, and the Impact of Life Cycle Dynamics|"How does the life cycle|namely, mortality risk and the expectation at birth of a rising age-profile of income and assets--impact house price dynamics? This paper investigates how equilibrium house prices respond to a tightening in credit constraints under two different but similarly calibrated models: one an infinite-horizon setting and the other a life-cycle environment. The main conclusion is that house price dynamics are magnified by the presence of life cycle features. Two primary explanations stand out: the distinction between stocks and flows of mortgage debt in the cross-section and the importance of gross housing tenure flows, i.e. churn."
R21|Des jardins partagés dans les quartiers d'habitat social : un moyen de repenser les pratiques alimentaires ?|Social inequalities in diet are attributed to sociocultural determinants, economic constraints, and unequal access to healthy food. Fruits and vegetables are lacking in the diets of disadvantaged populations. The objective was to test the hypothesis that, in poor neighborhoods, community gardeners will have larger supply of healthy food, especially fruit and vegetables, than non-gardeners. We examined community gardens from the perspective of production, economics and nutrition, and social and symbolic dimensions, through multidisciplinary investigations involving women with access to a community garden plot in a poor neighborhood of Marseille, France. Gardeners’ monthly household food supplies (purchases and garden production) were analyzed and compared with those of women with a similar socio-economic profile living in the same neighborhoods, without access to a garden. Twenty-one gardeners participated. Only eleven of them harvested during the month of the study, and the amount they collected averaged 53 g of produce per household member per day. Whether they harvested or not, most gardeners gave preference to diversity, taste and healthiness of produce over quantity produced. Interviews revealed a value assigned to social, cultural and symbolic dimensions: pride in producing and cooking their own produce, related self-esteem, and sharing their produce at the meal table. The only significant difference between the food supplies of gardener and non-gardener households was seen for fruit and vegetables (369 vs. 211 g/d per person). This difference was due to larger purchases of fruit and vegetables, and not to higher quantities produced. In spite of the cross-sectional nature of our study and the small quantities harvested, our results suggest that having access to a community garden could encourage socio-economically disadvantaged women to adopt dietary practices that more closely meet dietary recommendations. ....French Abstract: L’objectif de cette étude était de tester l’hypothèse selon laquelle, dans les quartiers pauvres, les jardiniers cultivant dans des jardins partagés auraient des approvisionnements en fruits et légumes plus élevés que des non-jardiniers. Une enquête pluridisciplinaire a été réalisée auprès de femmes ayant accès à une parcelle individuelle dans des jardins partagés de quartiers pauvres de Marseille. Les approvisionnements alimentaires mensuels des foyers de ces jardinières (achats et production du jardin) ont été analysés et comparés à ceux de femmes de profil socioéconomique similaire, vivant dans les mêmes quartiers mais n’ayant pas accès à un jardin. Au total, 21 jardinières ont participé à l’enquête. Seulement 11 d’entre elles ont récolté des produits potagers au jardin durant le mois d’enquête, les quantités produites s’élevant en moyenne à 53g de produits potagers par personne vivant dans le foyer et par jour. Qu’elles aient récolté ou non, les jardinières privilégiaient la diversité, le goût et la valeur santé des produits plutôt que les quantités produites. Les enquêtes ont révélé les valeurs sociale, culturelle et symbolique du jardinage (fierté de produire et de cuisiner sa propre production, estime de soi, commensalité). Concernant les approvisionnements alimentaires, la seule différence significative entre les foyers des jardinières et des non-jardinières concernait les fruits et légumes : 369 vs. 211 g par personne et par jour, respectivement, du fait d’achats plus importants de légumes dans les foyers des jardinières. Bien que l’étude soit transversale et malgré la faible quantité de produits potagers récoltés, nos résultats suggèrent que l’accès à un jardin partagé pourrait favoriser l’adoption de pratiques alimentaires plus favorables à la santé par les habitants de quartiers défavorisés
R21|Co-construction et évaluation d’un programme de promotion de la santé pour conjuguer nutrition et budget au quotidien : les ateliers Opticourses|Opticourses is a multi-partner and participative health promotion program, which was developed with and for socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals to improve the nutritional quality of their household food purchases without additional cost. The Opticourses program values foods with good nutritional quality and price using in-store social marketing actions (supply side) and participative workshops based on playful activities about food purchasing practices and nutritional quality, price and taste of foods (demand side). This article presents the co-construction and the evaluation of the demand side of Opticourses. The quantitative evaluation, using experimental economics to limit declarative bias, showed that workshops participation improves experimental food purchases (less calories, less free sugars) without additional cost. The qualitative evaluation revealed positive changes in the type of foods purchased, in purchasing strategies and in culinary practices. This study provides evidence on the effectiveness of the opticourses workshops. ....French Abstract: Opticourses est un programme de promotion de la santé, multipartenarial et participatif élaboré pour et avec des personnes soumises à de fortes contraintes budgétaires pour qu’elles puissent mieux conjuguer équilibre alimentaire et petit budget quand elles font leurs courses. Le programme Opticourses s’appuie sur la valorisation des aliments de bonne qualité nutritionnelle et de bon prix, à travers des actions de marketing social en magasin (volet offre) et à travers des ateliers qui proposent des activités ludiques sur les pratiques d’achats, la qualité nutritionnelle, le goût et le prix des aliments (volet demande). Cet article présente la co-construction et l’évaluation du volet demande d’Opticourses. L’évaluation quantitative, basée sur l’économie expérimentale pour limiter les biais de déclaration, a montré que la participation aux ateliers améliore les intentions d’achat (moins de calories, moins de produits sucrés) sans entraîner de dépense supplémentaire. L’évaluation qualitative a mis en évidence des améliorations portant sur le type d’aliments achetés, les stratégies d’achats et les pratiques culinaires des participants. Cette étude apporte des données probantes sur l’efficacité des ateliers Opticourses.
R21|Immigration And The Displacement of Incumbent Households|We make use of the universe of immigrants who arrived in Switzerland between 1992 and 2013, granular community level house price and wage data as well as detailed information on the Swiss population to study the effects of immigration on the location choice of incumbent households. Immigration influences a household’s location choice through three distinct channels: house price changes, labor market competition, and households’ sentiment regarding immigration. We find evidence of all three channels. However, we show that the channel to which a household responds most strongly depends on the type of immigration and the characteristics of the household. Our research provides valuable insights into some of the effects of large scale immigration.
R21|Home Ownership and Political Participation: Longitudinal Evidence Suggests There is No Causal Relationship|The effect of home ownership on political participation is examined using longitudinal data from New Zealand. We study political party membership, and if and how individuals voted in six General Elections, using validated data. There is a positive correlation between being a home owner and ever voting, and between political party membership and the local home ownership rate. Individual home ownership and the home ownership rate negatively correlate with voting for left-wing political parties. But once the longitudinal nature of the data are exploited, using fixed effects specifications, these significant correlations disappear. This change in the results suggests that unobserved factors that predispose people to be a home owner also affect their political participation.
R21|Access to employment and property values in Mexico|Location is one of the main characteristics households consider when buying a property or deciding where to live, since it determines accessibility to transport and hence to jobs and employment. Using a geographically-referenced dataset on new housing developments, this paper estimates how households value accessibility in Mexico City. Results are shown considering road accessibility to formal employment subcenters (private accessibility) and distance to the main public transport stations in the city (public accessibility). Results suggest that accessibility to employment subcenters is valued as an amenity by households but being closer to a Metro station is perceived as a disamenity. Moreover, households located in neighborhoods with a greater proportion of informal workers and with lower education levels give a lower value to private accessibility than households located in neighborhoods with a lower proportion of informal workers or in high-educated neighborhoods. These results are evidence of the existence of spatial segregation in the city where disadvantaged households are segregated, not only because of their economic conditions, but because they are located farther away from employment opportunities. The results in this work stress the importance of thinking about integrated land use and transport policies.
R21|Occupant Well-Being and House Values|"A difficulty in identifying the contribution of structure and neighborhood attributes to the market value of residential property is the lack of data on subjective characteristics of the neighborhood (friendliness of neighbors, proximity to friends and acquaintances) or difficult-to-observe subjective attributes of the structure itself (such as ""curb appeal"" or the presence of unpleasant odors). Concern may also arise from the understanding that the observed market price of most residential property is the result of a process of bargaining. A buyer who is optimistic by nature may assume that the quality of the neighborhood will be wonderful, or that the unusual odor will eventually go away, and therefore be willing to bid a higher price for the structure than a prospective buyer who is more nervous about all the ways that a house purchase can generate disappointment. Estimates of the value of structure or neighborhood attributes may tell us as much about the emotional affect of the buyer as they do about the actual costs or benefits of the attributes (or of cleaning or mitigating them). These observations suggest that incorporating data on the levels of subjective well being (SWB) and emotional affect of the buyers might be usefully applied to improve hedonic analysis of housing markets. The goal of this paper is to undertake such analysis and to explore the potential for improved analysis of the value of residential property. We make use of unique data collected as part of a multi-year analysis of health outcomes, matched with data on market transactions of residential property in three provinces of the Netherlands. We employ the spatial model developed by Kelejian and Prucha (2010) which allows us to incorporate a spatial error specification, as well explicitly control for possible endogeneity between the measure of SWB and the transaction price. By examining aggregate measures of SWB at different spatial scales, we obtain insights into whether these measurements are capturing subjective characteristics of the community, the neighborhood or the structure and the buyer who negotiateover the eventual price."
R21|Interactions between stock, bond and housing markets|We develop a model in which investors can participate in stock, bond and housing markets. Investors’ market entry decisions are subject to herding effects and depend on the markets’ price trends and on their mispricings. The dynamics of our model is governed by a four-dimensional nonlinear map and its unique inner steady state is characterized by standard present-value relations between dividends, rents and the bond rate. Amongst other things, we show that endogenous stock and housing market dynamics emerge, countercyclical to each other, if investors react strongly to the markets’ price trends. Such a cross feedback reflects investors’ tendency to transfer their enthusiasm from one speculative market to another.
R21|Regulating Speculative Housing Markets via Public Housing Construction Programs: Insights from a Heterogeneous Agent Model|Since the instability of housing markets may be quite harmful for the real economy, we explore whether public housing construction programs may tame housing market fluctuations. As a workhorse, we use a behavioral stock-flow housing market model in which the complex interplay between speculative and real forces triggers reasonable housing market dynamics. Simulations reveal that plausible and well-intended policy measures may turn out to be a mixed blessing. While public housing construction programs may reduce house prices, they seem to be incapable of bringing house prices much closer towards their fundamental values. In addition, these programs tend to drive out private housing constructions.
R21|Marriage Market Signals and Homeownership for the Never Married|"There is a growing trend of buying homes among the single population in the U.S. This trend has been referred to as ""Going Solo"" and is particularly evident among women who are the focus of our study. In this paper we investigate the hypothesis that homeownership probabilities can be affected by marriage market expectations and pessimistic marriage market expectations may raise home buying probabilities among never married singles. We focus solely on the sub population called the never married single females and our results provide evidence consistent with the above hypothesis. In particular, we find that up to a certain threshold, the probability of homeownership decreases when the marriage market prospect indicator improves and there is evidence of heterogeneity in this relationship across race, education level, age group and motherhood status."
R21|Elite School Designation and House Prices - Quasi-experimental Evidence from Beijing, China|We explore three recent comprehensive reforms which aim to equalize access to elite elementary schools in Beijing, to identify the causal effect of access to quality education on house prices. Using property transaction records from Beijing in 2013 and 2016, we construct a balanced panel of residential complexes, each of which linked to its designated primary school. Whereas the multi-school dicing reform involves randomly assigning previously ineligible pupils to key elementary schools through lotteries, the reform of school federation led by elite schools consolidates ordinary primary schools through alliance with elite schools. Moreover, an ordinary primary school can be promoted to key elementary school without involving neighbouring schools in surrounding residential complexes through a “pure” re-designation effect. We allow for systemic differences between the treated and non-treated residential complexes using the Matching Difference-in-Differences (MDID) approach. Our estimates indicate that the causal effect on house prices of being eligible to enrol in a municipal-level key primary school is about 5-7%, while the premium for being eligible for a less prestigious district-level key primary school is only about 1-3%.
R21|Sorting in an urban housing market - is there a response to demographic change?|"In urban areas, there is considerable neighbourhood-level variation in population characteristics. Using Dortmund as a case study we analyse whether and to what extent rents, housing prices and segregation dynamics corresponded with demographic ageing in urban neighbourhoods between 2007 and 2016. We find that in Dortmund so far there has been no slump of the housing market in neighbourhoods where the population ages more rapidly. Nevertheless, over the study period demographic segregation was on the rise and, according to a hedonic analysis, prices for apartments were higher in districts with a comparatively ""younger"" population. In the course of further demographic change in Germany, which has come to a contemporary halt due to immigration, the response to ageing on urban housing markets in terms of location choice and prices may therefore become more evident. A large-scale urban regeneration project has revitalised the housing market of a declining Dortmund community during this decade. Since local ageing has not affected housing markets severely so far, it appears to be within the scope of urban policy to upgrade the attractiveness of ageing neighbourhoods as perceived by younger generations."
R21|Housing Expenditures and Income Inequality|In this paper, we show that, in terms of real disposable income, changes in housing expenditures dramatically exacerbate the trend of income inequality that has risen sharply in Germany since the mid-1990s. More specifically, whereas the 50/10 ratio of net household income increases by 22 percentage points (pp) between 1993 and 2013, it increases by 62 pp for income net of housing expenditures. At the same time, the income share of housing expenditures rises disproportionally for the bottom income quintile and falls for the top quintile. Factors contributing to these trends include a decline in the relative costs of homeownership versus renting, changes in household structure, and residential mobility toward larger cities. Younger cohorts spend more on housing and save less than older cohorts did at the same age, with possibly negative consequences for wealth accumulation, particularly for those at the bottom of the income distribution.
R21|What Accounts for the Differences in Rent-Price Ratio and Turnover Rate? A Search-and-Matching Approach|Abstract We build an on-the-house search model and show that two frequently used metrics for the housing market, the rent-to-price ratio (or rental yield) and the turnover rate, are jointly determined in equilibrium. We, therefore, estimate a simultaneous equations system on matched sale-rental pairs, as a housing unit cannot be owner-occupied and renter-occupied at the same time. We confirm that a higher turnover rate is associated with a lower rental yield. We also identify a form of “dichotomy” in empirical determinants of rental yields and turnover rates at the estate level: the demographic structure and past returns affect an estate’s turnover rate, while popularity, human capital, mortgage burdens, and long-run rent growth determine its rental yield. The robustness of our results is established through a series of tests. Our popularity index for 130 estates in Hong Kong, estate rankings, and the brand premia of major real estate developers may carry independent interests.
R21|Nexus between visitor arrivals and residential property rents in Hong Kong|The cost of living in Hong Kong is among the highest in the world. This paper investigates the effect of tourist arrivals on the residential property market in Hong Kong. It is demonstrated that the soaring number of tourists from Mainland China is pushing up property rents in Hong Kong. The substantial accommodation need generated by the increasing number of students from China is another contributing factor.
R21|Rural Waste Management Issues at Global Level(Introductory chapter)|This chapter intends to draw attention to solid waste management sector toward rural areas where bad practices and public health threats could be avoided through traditional and integrated waste management routes. The expansion of waste collection services across rural municipalities should be a priority for many countries. Agricultural and municipal waste diversion from wild dumps and open burning practices must be avoided through smart solutions at the local level which are cost-efficient particularly in developing countries. The book further examines, on the one hand, the main challenges in the development of reliable waste management practices across rural regions and, on the other hand, the concrete solutions and the new opportunities across the world in dealing with rural solid waste.
R21|Common Factors and Spatial Dependence: An Application to US House Prices|This paper considers panel data models with cross-sectional dependence arising from both spatial autocorrelation and unobserved common factors. It derives conditions for model identification and proposes estimation methods that employ cross-sectional averages as factor proxies, including the 2SLS, Best 2SLS, and GMM estimations. The proposed estimators are robust to unknown heteroskedasticity and serial correlation in the disturbances, unrequired to estimate the number of unknown factors, and computationally tractable. The paper establishes the asymptotic distributions of these estimators and compares their consistency and efficiency properties. Extensive Monte Carlo experiments lend support to the theoretical findings and demonstrate the satisfactory finite sample performance of the proposed estimators. The empirical section of the paper finds strong evidence of spatial dependence of real house price changes across 377 Metropolitan Statistical Areas in the US from 1975Q1 to 2014Q4. The results also reveal that population and income growth have significantly positive direct and spillover effects on house price changes. These findings are robust to different specifications of the spatial weights matrix constructed based on distance, migration flows, and pairwise correlations.
R21|The Prevalence of Housing Eviction among Children Born in American Cities|Recent research suggests that housing eviction is a common hardship for many poor urban families and may play an important role in the reproduction of urban poverty. The proportion of children affected by housing eviction, however, remains largely unknown. Using a population-based panel study of children born in 20 large U.S. cities between 1998-2000, this research presents representative estimates of the proportion of urban American children to experience an eviction for nonpayment of rent or mortgage by age 15: about 1 in 7. Rates of eviction are substantial across all cities and demographic groups studied, but children most likely to experience eviction are from disadvantaged backgrounds. Among those born into deep poverty, about 1 in 4 were evicted by age 15. Given prior evidence that forced moves have negative consequences for children, we conclude that the high prevalence and social stratification of housing eviction are sufficient to play an important role in the reproduction of poverty and warrant greater policy attention.
R21|Does the Earned Income Tax Credit Reduce Housing Instability?|Housing instability (inability to pay rent, frequent moves, doubling up, eviction, or homelessness) is common among low-income households and is linked with a host of negative outcomes for families and children. As rents have risen and wages have not kept pace, housing affordability has declined over the last 15 years, increasing rates of housing instability. In this study, we examine whether the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a key US social welfare policy and one of the largest cash transfer programs in the US, reduces housing instability. Using longitudinal data from the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study and the Survey of Income and Program Participation, we employ a simulated instruments strategy to examine whether policy-induced expansions in the EITC reduce housing instability. Results suggest that a $1,000 increase in the EITC reduces doubling up (living with other non-nuclear family adults) 3 to 5 percentage points. We find some suggestive evidence that the EITC decreases the average number of moves per year (0.05 moves). While our results suggest that the EITC does decrease certain, less severe forms of housing instability, we find no evidence that the EITC decreases more extreme (and rarer) forms of housing instability: eviction or homelessness.
R21|Analysis of Housing Equity Withdrawal by its Forms|Using the household level data from the UK Wealth and Asset Survey for years 2006-2014, we explore a household’s decision to use one particular method of withdrawing home equity from a range of options available to them. These options include financial products such as remortgage contracts and equity release schemes (reverse mortgage and home reversion schemes) and informal mediums carried out by individual households themselves, for example downsizing of homeownership. The results show that homeowners prefer using formal channels of equity withdrawal. This tendency persists when controlling for household characteristics such as age profile, marital status and demographics and levels of housing wealth, income, savings and unsecured and secured debts. Our findings support the argument that while the decision to withdraw home equity conforms to consumption smoothing motives, the choice of an equity withdrawal medium goes beyond those motives and depends on the circumstances facing individual households.
R21|The Property Ladder after the Financial Crisis: The First Step is a Stretch but Those Who Make It Are Doing OK|The global financial crisis (GFC) focused attention on household debt in dramatic fashion. While Australia escaped much of the immediate fallout, concerns over the level of household debt have become more entwined in policy deliberations in recent years. Parallel concerns, flowing from the rapid growth in housing prices in Australia and focusing on first home buyers, have also emerged. Some are concerned that this rapid growth is shutting a generation out of the home ownership market. Others are worried that those who do manage to buy a first home are taking on inadvisable levels of debt to do so. This paper investigates how things have changed since the GFC for those stepping onto the property ladder. Is 'generation rent' an important trend? Are people buying first homes taking on 'too much' debt? And what implications does this have for our understanding of the growing level of aggregate household debt? We find that fewer people are making the transition from renters to owners than prior to the crisis. Those that do, however, are more financially stable than earlier cohorts. Thus, 'generation rent' is an important trend but a consequence is that those who do step onto the property ladder are, on average, better placed to pay off their loans. We attribute much of this change to the increase in housing prices and the associated hurdle that deposit requirements represent. While saving a deposit is a stretch, it is also a sign of financial discipline that is associated with fewer subsequent difficulties.
R21|The Effect of a Second Home Construction Ban on Real Estate Prices|In 2012, a drastic regulation prohibiting the construction of holiday and investment homes in touristic municipalities in Switzerland was surprisingly introduced. I investigate the causal effect of such a construction limitation on real estate prices. The regulation does not affect all municipalities, which provides a unique possibility to separate the municipalities into treatment and control groups. I apply the synthetic control method to estimate the causal effect of the regulation. Unlike the classic synthetic control method literature, I deal with multiple heterogeneous treatment units. This allows me to compute statistical significance precisely and construct confidence intervals. I demonstrate a salient drop in real estate prices of between - 10% and -18% three to five years after the intervention. These results are highly significant. However, no effect on prices in the first two years after the intervention is found. The decrease in prices is shown to be caused by indirect channels such as adverse effects on local economies and legal uncertainty.
R21|Immigration and Swiss House Prices|Summary This study examines the behavior of Swiss house prices in relation to immigration flows for 85 regions from 2001 to 2006. The results show that the nexus between immigration and house prices holds even in an environment of low house price inflation and modest immigration flows. An immigration inflow equal to 1 % of an area’s population is coincident with an increase in prices for single-family homes of about 2.7 %, a result consistent with previous studies. The overall immigration effect for single-family houses captures almost two-thirds of the total price increase.
R21|Immigration and Swiss House Prices|This study examines the behavior of Swiss house prices in relation to immigration flows for 85 regions from 2001 to 2006. The results show that the nexus between immigration and house prices holds even in an environment of low house price inflation and modest immigration flows. An immigration inflow equal to 1 % of an area’s population is coincident with an increase in prices for single-family homes of about 2 .7 %, a result consistent with previous studies. The overall immigration effect for single-family houses captures almost two-thirds of the total price increase.
R21|Time-Varying and Regional Dynamics in Swiss Housing Markets|In light of the strong increase of house prices in Switzerland in the 2000s and early 2010s, we analyze the effects of mortgage rate shocks, changes in housing demand & supply and business cycle conditions on house prices for the time period 1982–2013. We study intertemporal effects by employing Bayesian timevarying coefficients vector autoregressions (TVC-BVAR), regional effects by using regional BVARs and heterogeneity in housing markets by looking at housing segments. 50 % of house price variations can be explained by housing demand & supply. The response of house prices to mortgage rate shocks weakened after the 1990s real estate crisis and remained constant thereafter. However, owneroccupied apartment prices became again more sensitive to mortgage rate shocks during the recent house price boom. Regional effects are especially prevalent for regions Zurich and Geneva.
R21|Reforming housing rental market in a life-cycle model|Housing rental market share in most countries around the world is low. We explore the reasons behind this underdevelopment with a survey conducted among a representative group of 1005 Poles. It turns out that strong tenure preferences of households toward owning can be attributed to both economic and psychological factors. Building on these findings, we develop a life-cycle model and evaluate the effect of the following reforms aimed at improving the functioning of the rental market: (i) changing the quality of rental services, (ii) reducing the risk of investment in rental housing and (iii) removing fiscal incentives for owning. The results indicate that the reforms, if introduced simultaneously, significantly increase the rental market share.
R21|The decision on unconstitutionality of earmarking and its impact on the housing access: Evidence from SÃ£o Paulo State, Brazil|An important challenge in the earmarking literature is to isolate causal effects of earmarking decisions on public goods supply. Following the Brazilian Supreme Courtï¿½s decision on unconstitutionality of Sï¿½o Paulo Stateï¿½s earmarking policy to face housing deficit, in September 1997, earmarked resources to fund the CDHU were forbidden. The Supreme Courtï¿½s decision created an uncertain housing policy scenario,especially, to households with a housing deficit. The Supreme Court intervention can be assumed to be exogenous to a housing deficit econometric model. The decision on unconstitutionality of the earmarking mechanism for housing construction by the Brazilian Court allows identifying an exogenously determined pre and post treatment situation, with the households between zero and five-minimum wages and households between five and six-minimum wages defining the treatment-group and control-group, respectively, along the lines of the eligibility rule by the CDHU. We apply a difference-in-difference empirical model with non-linear estimators. Our results suggest that low-income households under uncertainty face an average increase of 1.8% in the probability to remain in a housing deficit condition and indicate that low-income households depend on the government earmarking policy.
R21|Estimating the Willingness to Pay for Tenure Security in Brazilian Favelas|This paper examines willingness to pay for housing tenure security in favelas in six Brazilian states, Ceara, Paraiba, Pernambuco and in the north-east, Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo in the south-east, and Rio Grande do Sul in the south, using data from the national household survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios, PNAD) for 2002. We use a quasi-experimental technique by combining the inverse probability weighting estimator proposed by Hirano and Imbens (2001) with an interval regression model to shed light on what might be seen as the effect of title ownership on housing values in Brazilian favelas once selection on observed characteristics are controlled for. We also use state fixed effects to control for idiosyncratic characteristics of states. We interpret the resulting estimate in the same vein as Friedman et al (1988) as an estimate of the willingness to pay for tenure security. As far as we know, this is the first attempt at estimating willingness to pay for tenure security in Brazilian favelas. Our results suggest that people living in favelas are willing to pay on average an additional 18% of the value of their house for tenure security. However we find that among the poor willingness to pay for tenure security is substantially less, and for some disappears entirely. We suggest that this may be either because households in smaller and longer established favelas may have developed informal mechanisms to ensure their security or because the poor are skeptical about the real security the title represents in that environment. We argue that these estimates are useful for public policy in Brazil, where millions of households live in informal dwellings and interventions involving land regularization do not appear to account for households’ willingness to pay. We also simulate the likely cost of a titling programme and the consequences for household debt burdens.
R21|Disentangling Age and Cohorts Effects on Home-Ownership and Housing Wealth in Turkey|This paper analyses the role of age and cohort effects on home-ownership and housing wealth in Turkey. We utilize twelve consecutive waves of the Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) Household Budget Surveys (HBS) from 2003 to 2014. We construct a pseudo-panel data set following Deaton (1985) using birth-year cohorts in which families are grouped into cohorts with respect to the birth year of their household heads. Empirical analysis shows that young cohorts are less likely to own their homes, but they are more likely to be in housing debt. Moreover, they are willing to invest in second homes as much as old cohorts. We estimate a Heckman two-step selection model to distinguish the contribution of quality growth on house prices, while the selection criterion is home-ownership. We regress weighted average of the natural logarithm of cohort home values on age and cohort dummy variables. We find that cohort effects on home values are significantly larger for young cohorts even after controlling for age effects and quality growth.
R21|The effect of house price changes on cohort consumption in Turkey|This paper analyzes the relationship between house prices and household consumption in Turkey. We utilize twelve consecutive waves of the Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) Household Budget Surveys (HBS) from 2003 to 2014. We construct a pseudo-panel data set using birth-year cohorts following Deaton (1985). We find that house price changes have a positive and significant effect on the growth of cohort consumption. Moreover, the effect of house price changes is stronger for home-owners and it intensifies as we move from young cohorts to old cohorts. We observe that there is a marginally significant and relatively weak relationship between the growth of cohort consumption and house price changes for tenants. However, our pooled sample set is restricted to young and middle-aged cohorts for tenants. In addition, we find that the rise of home-ownership ratio increases the growth of cohort consumption, while the spread of having outstanding housing debt depresses the growth of cohort consumption. Therefore, our empirical findings are in favor of the wealth channel argument.
R21|Home-ownership, Housing Demand and Household Wealth Distribution in Turkey|This paper analyses recent housing market developments in Turkey. In particular, we estimate permanent income elasticity, price elasticity and interest rate elasticity of housing demand. For this purpose, we utilize twelve consecutive waves of the Turkish Statistical Institute (TURKSTAT) Household Budget Surveys (HBS) from 2003 to 2014. The most difficult aspect of empirical analysis is the estimation of a hedonic house price index. We find that the permanent income elasticity of housing demand is approximately 24% in our restricted sample. The price elasticity of housing demand is between -29% and -35%, but it is not statistically significant. Interest rate elasticity of housing demand has a negative sign, but it is measured as a very small value and it is not statistically significant. Our estimates are modest compared to previous empirical findings for the Turkish economy and emerging market economies in the literature. Moreover, robustness checks reveal that the importance of income on housing demand remained at the same level between 2003 and 2014, while the roles of house prices and interest rates are weakened during this time period with respect to past periods. As a result, our empirical analysis confirms that income is the main determinant of home-ownership and housing wealth.
R21|The impact of employment on housing prices: Detailed evidence from FDI in Ireland|Access to employment is one of the most valuable amenities offered by cities. In urban economics, this is the principal driver of the bid-rent gradient and is a key determinant of housing prices and land values. However, little is known about the causal effect of employment on housing prices, due to the problem of identification. This study presents the first causal estimates of employment changes on housing prices, both sales and rental. It does this by using a purpose-built spatially granular dataset of 1.4 million housing prices and FDI employment, covering Ireland 2007–2013. Identification rests on a combination of rich spatio-temporal variation due to the abundance of FDI in Ireland, a rich set of location controls and an inelastic housing supply in the period covered. The main results show that 1–2 years after 1000 extra jobs have been created, monthly rents in nearby properties will be between 0.5% and 1% higher. The effect on prices is at least 2% but less consistent across specifications. On average, net job creation in export-oriented FDI firms 2009–2013 added roughly €48 million to the stock of wealth of owner occupied real estate and €8 million to the stock of wealth of the rental sector. We also estimate that the aggregate effect of the stock of FDI jobs in 2013 on Irish housing prices is €440 million, or just over 1%.
R21|Credit conditions and the housing price ratio: evidence from Ireland's bubble and crash|The Great Recession starting in 2007 has refocused attention on the importance of understanding housing market dynamics as contributors to macroeconomic fluctuations. While the sale-to-rent ratio of housing prices is generally regarded as a fundamental barometer of housing market health, the study of its determinants remains in its infancy. This paper examines the housing price ratio in Ireland, during an extreme housing market cycle. Using new data on first-time buyer loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, a one-step error correction model of the housing price ratio in Ireland is presented for the first time. Covering the period 2000-2012, it finds clear evidence that, alongside user cost, credit conditions were central in determining equilibrium in the housing market, which saw rapid adjustment in the ratio in response to changes in its determinants. The results imply that an increase in the LTV by 10pp would have associated with a fall in the yield in 2012 from 5.6% to 5.2% in equilibrium. Overall, the results suggest that simplistic models of the housing price ratio, depending solely on user cost, are lacking. The importance of credit conditions is a finding with implications for other markets and for macro-prudential policy.
R21|Measuring Diverging House Prices|Real estate price indexes summarize the evolution of all property prices in a single number, while actual price movements often differ among market segments. We develop a methodology for measuring prices as a flexible function of a one-dimensional quality measure – housing services for residential real estate - and apply it to test for the common assumption of identical price movements in all parts of the market. Our approach is based on a generalization of the familiar (constant unit price) Muth model to a situation of in which the unit price of housing services may depend on the quality level. We apply the method to a rich set of transaction data referring to Amsterdam in the period 1985-2013. We estimate an indicator of housing services based only on the ranking of house prices in postcode areas during periods of three months and compare the results to conventional hedonic price equations that embody the assumption of a unit price for housing services that does not depend on quality. We develop a test for a constant price per unit of housing services and reject it on the basis of price differences occurring over time as well as over space.
R21|The Financial Crisis and Diverging House Prices: Evidence from the Copenhagen Metropolitan Area|This paper investigates the development of house prices in Copenhagen in the period 1994-2013, while paying special attention to the heterogeneous impact of the boom and bust periods along the dimensions of housing type (single vs multifamily housing), geography and quality. To allow for price developments that can differ by quality, we use a recently developed generalization of the conventional Muth model that assumes a constant unit price across the quality spectrum. It allows us to separately consider the development of house prices and quality in Copenhagen neighbourhoods. Moreover, we investigate the validity of the common assumption of a constant unit price and reject it decisively. We use detailed housing transaction data for the greater Copenhagen area. We show that the housing boom of the 2000’s and the bust that followed hit the lowest quality segments significantly harder than the high quality segments of the housing market.
R21|The effect of school quality on housing rents: Evidence from Matsue city in Japan|This study investigates the effect of public school quality on housing rents within a school district. I estimate the causal effect of school quality as measured by average test scores on housing rents, by using a regression discontinuity design to control for unobserved characteristics of neighborhoods. Specifically, I focus on apartment buildings located within school attendance district boundaries. I find that school quality has a significantly positive effect on housing rents of apartments for families, but school quality does not have a significant effect on housing rents of dwellings for single people. These results show that parents are willing to pay more to send their children to a better school.
R21|Capitalization of Charter Schools into Residential Property Values|Although prior research has found clear impacts of schools and school quality on property values, little is known about whether charter schools have similar effects. Using sale price data for residential properties in Los Angeles County from 2008 to 2011 we estimate the neighborhood level impact of charter schools on housing prices. Using an identification strategy that relies on census-block fixed effects and variation in charter penetration over time, we find little evidence that the availability of a charter school affects housing prices on average. We do find, however, that when restricting to districts other than Los Angeles Unified and counting only charter schools located in the same school district as the household, housing prices fall in response to an increase in nearby charter penetration.
R21|Alternative Approaches for Resale Housing Price Indexes|The use of hedonic regression models on the sales of detached housing units is widespread in the real estate literature. However, these models do not address the need to decompose the sale price into structure and land components. In the international System of National Accounts, it is necessary to obtain separate estimates for the price and quantity of housing structures and the land that these structures sit on. The builderâ€™s model accomplishes this decomposition but it has only been applied to Dutch and Japanese data. The paper will apply the builderâ€™s model to data on sales of detached houses in Richmond, British Columbia to test the robustness of the model. The property price indexes generated by the builderâ€™s model are also compared to the corresponding indexes generated by a traditional time product dummy hedonic regression model. The implied structure depreciation rates generated by both models are also compared. We find that if a sufficient number of housing characteristics are included in the hedonic regressions, the two approaches generate similar overall property price indexes and similar geometric depreciation rates. However, the two approaches do not generate similar land and structure subindexes.
R21|Alternative Land Price Indexes for Commercial Properties in Tokyo|The SNA (System of National Accounts) requires separate estimates for the land and structure components of a commercial property. Using transactions data for the sales of office buildings in Tokyo, a hedonic regression model (the Builder’s Model) was estimated and this model generated an overall property price index as well as subindexes for the land and structure components of the office buildings. The Builder’s Model was also estimated using appraisal data on office building REITs for Tokyo. These hedonic regression models also generate estimates for net depreciation rates which can be compared. Finally, the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism constructs annual official land prices for commercial properties based on appraised values. The paper compares these official land prices with the land prices generated by the hedonic regression models based on transactions data and on REIT data. The results show that the Builder’s Model using transactions data can be used to estimate Tokyo office market indexes with a reasonable level of precision. The results also revealed that commercial property indexes based on appraisal and assessment prices lag behind the indexes based on transaction prices.
R21|Homeowner preferences after September 11th, a microdata approach|The existence of homeowner preferences – specifically homeowner preferences for neighbors – is fundamental to economic models of sorting. This paper investigates whether or not the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (9/11) impacted local preferences for Arab neighbors. We test for changes in preferences using a differences-in-differences approach in a hedonic pricing model. Relative to sales before 9/11, we find properties within 0.1miles of an Arab homeowner sold at a 1.4% discount (approximately $4133) in the 180 days after 9/11. The results are robust to a number of specifications including time horizon, event date, distance, time, alternative ethnic groups, and the presence of nearby mosques. Previous research has shown price effects at neighborhood levels but has not identified effects at the micro or individual property level, and for good reason: most transaction level data sets do not include ethnic identifiers. Applying methods from the machine learning and biostatistics literature, we develop a binomial classifier using a supervised learning algorithm and identify Arab homeowners based on the name of the buyer. We train the binomial classifier using names from Summer Olympic Rosters for 221 countries during the years 1948–2012. We demonstrate the flexibility of our methodology and perform an interesting counterfactual by identifying Hispanic and Asian homeowners in the data; unlike the statistically significant results for Arab homeowners, we find no meaningful results for Hispanic and Asian homeowners following 9/11.
R21|Chinese Superstition and Real Estate Prices: Transaction-level Evidence from the US Housing Market|We investigate the impact of Chinese superstition on prices paid by Chinese home buyers in Seattle, Washington. Chinese consider 8 lucky and 4 unlucky. Empirical results indicate Chinese buyers pay a 1-2% premium for addresses including an 8 and a 1% discount for addresses including a 4. These results are unrelated to unobserved property quality: no premium exists when Chinese sell to non-Chinese. Absent explicit identifiers for Chinese individuals, we develop a binomial name classifier using methods from the biomedical and document classification literature, allowing for falsification tests using other ethnic groups and mitigating ambiguity attributable to transliteration of Chinese characters into the Latin alphabet.
R21|A replication recipe: List your ingredients before you start cooking|"The author argues that researchers should do replications using preanalysis plans. These plans should specify at least three characteristics: (1) how much flowtime the researchers will spend, (2) how much money and effort (working hours) the researchers will spend, and (3) the intended results and the precision of the replication necessary for ""success"". A researcher's replication will be ""successful"" according to context-specific criteria in the preanalysis plan. The author also argues that the two biggest drawbacks of preanalysis plans-(1) that they discount unexpected but extraordinary findings and (2) that they make it difficult for researchers to prespecify all possible actions in their decision trees-are less relevant for replications compared with new research. The author concludes with describing a preanalysis plan for replicating a paper on housing demand and household formation."
R21|The clash of rural-urban migrants and real estate investors on Phnom Penh's housing market: Prospects for garment workers|Housing markets of large cities around the world, particularly in so-called developing and emerging countries, are currently experiencing a clash: On the one hand, large numbers of labour migrants arrive from rural areas and need cheap rental housing. On the other hand, international real estate investment, particularly in the upper market segment, is strong. The resulting mismatch of housing demand and supply increases segregation, marginalises the vulnerable and leads to massive urban development problems. Phnom Penh illustrates this particularly well: Along with Cambodia's rapid globalisation in the last decades, hundreds of thousands of migrants, particularly garment workers, have moved to the capital. Housing for them is insufficient both in terms of supply and quality, though, because Phnom Penh's entrepreneurial mode of governance also attracts many investors, who focus on more profitable and prestigious real estate projects, often linked to speculation. These push land values up and push cheap rental housing further and further outside the city. This study carries out an indepth analysis of the prospects for rural-urban migrant workers on Phnom Penh's investor-driven housing market by firstly outlining both migration and real estate investment trends and by secondly examining the case of garment workers' housing. To complement the scarce literature on the topic, field research and expert interviews have been conducted. From these, an assessment of the status quo, of stakeholders' approaches to it and finally, proposals for action are derived.
R21|Three risks for the German residential property market|With prices surging in major cities since 2010, the debate about a potential speculative bubble in the German housing market has been gaining momentum. Overall, however, the German housing market is sound. Neither an excess of construction, nor an excess of mortgage lending have been observed, and thus the risk of a sudden burst in housing prices seems low. In the major cities in particular, there is a discrepancy between supply and demand. Combined with low mortgage rates, strong price increases are plausible. Nevertheless, this study also points to risks in the market. Specifically, investors should take into account the 3 following risks: 1. In rural regions, there is an excess of supply of single-family homes. Since demographic forecasts for the larger part of these regions are dismal, a price correction seems more likely. 2. In some big cities, completions in micro apartments have been enormously high. Moreover, most new micro apartments are let at high rental rates, overburdening most students who are meant to be the typical users. As the population aged between 18 and 25 is set to shrink over the coming years, there are grounds for a market correction, 3. Multipliers indicate optimistic expectations with regards to future rent increases, specifically in Hamburg and Munich. Although rental increases can be justified by a growing population, there is a risk of a tightening in rental regulation, preventing investors from putting rental increases in practice. The German housing market appeared to be a haven for investors in recent years. The combination of high demand (migration), a robust economy and ultra-low mortgage rates offered the chance for high capital growth. Fortunately, the German market is less prone to overheating than other markets, but risks are emerging nonetheless. However, since demand continues to outpace supply in various sub-segments of the housing market, investment opportunities are still present.
R21|Fundamental Determinants of Real Estate Prices: A Panel Study of German Regions|Abstract This paper aims at establishing empirical facts on the fundamental determinants of real estate prices. It contributes to the literature by analysing a unique panel dataset covering a wide range of real estate market data and other economic variables for nearly 100 German cities. Several robust fundamental determinants are identified, among them the supply-side factors of construction activity and housing stock as well as the demand-side factors of apartment rents, market size, age structure, local infrastructure and rental prices. Results suggest that these factors are robustly linked to fundamental real estate prices and thus can be used to detect misalignments of market prices.
R21|Rental prices in Germany: A comparison between migrants and natives|This paper deals with the question of whether migrants in Germany pay a rent premium for apartments of comparable quality and neighborhood characteristics. We use a twostep selection-correction model augmented by a control function to account for nonrandom neighborhood choice. The estimation sample is a uniquely assembled panel comprising the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), information on household and apartment characteristics, as well as georeferenced data describing neighborhood quality. We find no evidence that having a migrant background is directly associated with higher rent. Migrants may nevertheless face higher rents by settling in neighborhoods populated by a high share of foreigners, which we find has a positive and statistically significant relationship with the rent.
R21|Immigration and Rental Prices of Residential Housing: Evidence from the Fall of the Berlin Wall|This paper exploits the natural experiment provided by the unexpected disintegration of socialist East Germany to study the impact that immigration has on residential housing rents in recipient regions. Using a spatial correlation approach, annual district-level migration data and rental price indicators, we find strong evidence for a positive and sizeable effect of immigration on housing rents. An exploration of exogenous origin-region push factors yields IV estimates of even larger magnitude.
R21|The Value of Energy Efficiency and the Role of Expected Heating Costs|The German Energy Savings Act (Energieeinsparverordnung) requires sellers on the housing market to provide detailed information on expected yearly energy consumption per square meter. This paper uses variation of energy use and heating costs from local fuel prices, climatic conditions, and fuel types to analyze the relationship between expected energy cost savings from energy efficient building structure and house prices in a data set of listing prices from all regions of Germany. Furthermore, the role of building age for the value of energy efficiency is considered. Results suggest that agents are aware of the investment dimension of energy efficiency improvements, but not all important aspects are taken into account.
R21|Price and Quantity Effects of the German Real Estate Transfer Tax|This paper analyzes the tax effects of the German real estate transfer tax (RETT). While the vast majority of single-family houses in Germany are owner-occupied, apartments are usually held by private and incorporated investors. For this reason, we conducted a regression analysis to determine the effects of increasing RETT on the number and the prices of transactions separately for these two market segments. Our findings suggest that increasing the RETT by 1% is associated with a decline in transactions by 0.23% for single-family houses, but with no significant effect on the prices of traded houses. Conversely, for apartments, we find no significantly negative effects on the transactions, but the price effect of the RETT tends to be negative. Finally, for vacant lots, we find even larger quantity effects than for single-family houses suggesting roughly an elasticity of -1. The results for this specific market segment indicate that the government operates near the top of a Laffer curve.
R21|Ist eine makroprudenzielle Regulierung des deutschen Hypothekenmarktes geboten?|Die Bundesregierung hat neue Instrumente der makroprudenziellen Regulierung für den deutschen Hypothekenmarkt geschaffen. Dieser Aufsatz untersucht die Notwendigkeit der Anwendung dieser Instrumente vor dem Hintergrund bestehender Finanzierungsgewohnheiten und Regulierungen. Angesichts der im internationalen Vergleich bereits als konservativ anzusehenden Ausgestaltung der Wohnimmobilienfinanzierung erscheint ein Einsatz makroprudenzieller Instrumente auf absehbare Zeit nicht erforderlich. Grundsätzlich sollten Entscheidungen hierüber regelgebunden auf Grundlage belastbarer Einzelkreditdaten erfolgen. Dafür bedarf es insgesamt eines besseren Monitorings des Immobilienfinanzierungsmarktes.
R21|Asymmetries in the interaction between housing prices and housing credit in Estonia|This paper investigates the mutual dependence between housing prices and housing credit in Estonia, a country which experienced rapid debt accumulation during the 2000s and big swings in house prices during that period. We use Bayesian econometric methods on data spanning 2000â€“2015. The estimations show the interdependence between house prices and housing credit. More importantly, housing credit shocks had a stronger effect on house prices in the period of declining credit turnover. The asymmetry in the linkage between housing credit and house prices highlights important policy implications, in that if central banks increase capital buffers during good times, they can release credit conditions during hard times to alleviate the negative spillover into house prices and the real economy
R21|Forecasting house prices using dynamic model averaging approach: Evidence from China|Forecasting house price has been of great interests for macroeconomists, policy makers and investors in recent years. To improve the forecasting accuracy, this paper introduces a dynamic model averaging (DMA) method to forecast the growth rate of house prices in 30 major Chinese cities. The advantage of DMA is that this method allows both the sets of predictors (forecasting models) as well as their coefficients to change over time. Both recursive and rolling forecasting modes are applied to compare the performance of DMA with other traditional forecasting models. Furthermore, a model confidence set (MCS) test is used to statistically evaluate the forecasting efficiency of different models. The empirical results reveal that DMA generally outperforms other models, such as Bayesian model averaging (BMA), information-theoretic model averaging (ITMA) and equal-weighted averaging (EW), in both recursive and rolling forecasting modes. In addition, in recent years it is found that the Google search index, instead of fundamental macroeconomic or monetary indicators, has developed greater predictive power for house price in China.
R21|Speculative behavior in a housing market: Boom and bust|We study a housing market with household buyers, speculative investors and property developers in a Walrasian scenario. We show that in addition to the factors that affect the real demand of household buyers and the development cost of property developers, investors' speculative behavior is an important factor explaining housing price evolution and dynamics. In particular, investors' extrapolative expectations may drive the housing price to persistently deviate from its benchmark value and even to explode. In contrast, investors' mean-reverting strategy can balance out the position of trend extrapolators, which may stabilize an otherwise explosive housing market. Moreover, the evolutionary process of housing prices driven by investors' speculative behavior is path-dependent in the sense that different initial market conditions may result in different price paths, which corresponds to the localization property empirically documented in the real housing market. In addition, within the stylized model, we provide some policy implications through analyzing the limitation and effectiveness of policy adjustments via down payment and development cost, and find that the decrease of development cost is a better measure to adjust the housing market when it booms or busts.
R21|Self-protection investment exacerbates air pollution exposure inequality in urban China|Urban China's high level of ambient air pollution lowers quality of life and raises mortality risk. China's wealthy can purchase private products such as portable room air filters that offset some of their pollution exposure risk. Using a unique data set of Internet purchases, we document that households invest more in masks and air filter products when ambient pollution levels exceed key alert thresholds. Richer people are more likely to invest in air filters, which are much more expensive and more effective than masks. Our findings have implications for trends in quality of life inequality in urban China.
R21|The risks of nuclear disaster and its impact on housing prices|Using a data set on housing sales transactions we explore the potential effect of the Fukushima disaster on housing prices in Sweden. In contrast to most earlier findings in other countries we do not find any disproportionate effect from the Fukushima disaster on housing prices in vicinity of nuclear power plants in Sweden.
R21|Amortization requirements and household indebtedness: An application to Swedish-style mortgages|Since the mid-1990s, many OECD countries have experienced a substantial increase in household indebtedness. Sweden, in particular, has seen indebtedness rise from 90% of disposable income in 1995 to 179% in 2015. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA) has identified mortgage amortization requirements as a potential instrument for reducing indebtedness; and has drafted guidelines that will intensify the rate and duration of amortization. In this paper, I characterize Swedish-style mortgage contracts, which differ substantially from U.S.-style contracts. I then evaluate the policy changes in an incomplete markets model with three types of debt and a novel mortgage contract specification that is calibrated to match Swedish micro and macro data. I find that intensifying the rate and duration of amortization is largely ineffective at reducing indebtedness in a realistically-calibrated model. In the absence of tight restrictions on the maximum debt-service-to-income ratio or implausibly large refinancing costs, the policy impact is small in aggregate, over the lifecycle, and across employment statuses.
R21|I can hear my neighbors' fracking: The effect of natural gas production on housing values in Tarrant County, TX|In this study we estimate the effect of hydraulically fractured natural gas wells on residential real estate prices. We exploit variation in distance to nearby gas wells in home sale prices to estimate this effect. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on a relatively densely populated area, a section of the Dallas–Ft. Worth–Arlington urban area. Using a dataset of 127,556 observations from Tarrant County, Texas over the period 2005–2011, we find robust evidence that increased proximity to a well leads to reduced home sale prices. Existence of wells within 3500ft of a property reduces property values by approximately 1.5–3%. We demonstrate that the reduction seems to be driven by unconventional rather than conventional wells, and that well construction causes an added 1–2% reduction in home value.
R21|Immigration and housing: A spatial econometric analysis|In this paper we examine the effect of immigration into the U.S. on the U.S. housing market, both in terms of rents and single family house prices. We model the housing market in a spatial econometrics context using the spatial Durbin model. This approach helps us exploit and capture both the direct and indirect effects of immigration inflows on the U.S. housing market. We find that an increase in immigration inflows into a particular MSA is associated with increases in rents and with house prices in that MSA while also seeming to drive up rents and prices in neighboring MSAs. The patterns observed in the rental and house price markets, along with the larger spillover effects, are consistent with native-flight from immigrant receiving areas.
R21|The Economic Implications of House Price Capitalization: A Synthesis|In this article I argue that the extent to which fiscal variables are capitalized into house prices has important economic implications. I synthesize an emerging literature that explores the conditions under which public and private investments and intergovernmental transfers are capitalized into local house prices and the broader implications of such capitalization. The main insights are: (i) House price capitalization is more pronounced in locations with strict regulatory and geographical supply constraints; (ii) capitalization can - under certain conditions - induce the provision of durable local public goods and club goods; and (iii) capitalization effects - which are habitually ignored by policy makers - have important adverse consequences for a wide range of policies such as intergovernmental aid or the mortgage interest deduction.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R21|Urban renewal after the Berlin Wall: a place-based policy evaluation|We use a quasi-experimental research design to study the effects of a spatially targeted renewal policy implemented in Berlin, Germany, in the aftermath of the city’s division during the Cold War period. Our results suggest that over the course of 20 years, the policy helped to reduce (increase) the propensity of buildings being in poor (good) condition within the targeted areas by, on average, 1.2–3% (0.6–2.5%) per year. The estimated effects on property prices range from 0.1% to 2% per year. In each case, the lower-bound estimate is not statistically significant. We find little evidence of positive housing externalities or positive welfare effects.
