R23|Entwicklung regionaler Disparitäten hinsichtlich Wirtschaftskraft, sozialer Lage sowie Daseinsvorsorge und Infrastruktur in Deutschland und seinen ländlichen Räumen|Diese Studie zeigt für insgesamt 13 Indikatoren aus den Bereichen Wirtschaftskraft, soziale Lage sowie Daseinsvorsorge und Infrastruktur, wie sich die regionalen Disparitäten in Deutschland seit dem Jahr 2000 entwickelt haben. Im Ergebnis lässt sich auf der räumlichen Analyseebene der Kreisregionen weder ein grundsätzliches Auseinanderdriften der Regionen in Deutschland noch eine pauschale Abkopplung ländlicher Räume von der gesamtgesellschaftlichen Entwicklung feststellen. Für 11 der 13 Indikatoren waren die ermittelten Disparitäten im Untersuchungszeitraum relativ konstant oder haben abgenommen, bei zwei Indikatoren haben sie zugenommen. Unterschiede zwischen der Gesamtheit der ländlichen und der der nichtländlichen Räume sind ebenfalls bei 11 der 13 Indikatoren über den gesamten Beobachtungszeitraum nahezu nicht vorhanden, konstant geblieben oder haben sich zugunsten der ländlichen Räume entwickelt. Zum Teil dürfte vor allem letzteres auf eine passive Sanierung zurückzuführen sein, da insbesondere viele ländliche Regionen von einem Bevölkerungsrückgang gekennzeichnet sind. Am Ende des Beobachtungszeitraums stehen die ländlichen Räume in ihrer Gesamtheit bei drei der betrachteten 13 Indikatoren besser da als die Gesamtheit der nicht-ländlichen Räume, bei vier schlechter und bei sechs ist kein nennenswerter Niveauunterschied (mehr) vorhanden. Über alle Indikatoren hinweg lassen sich keine einheitlichen räumlichen Muster identifizieren. Inwiefern bestehende regionale Unterschiede und deren Entwicklung im Zeitablauf einen politischen Handlungsbedarf begründen, ist in erster Linie eine normative und keine wissenschaftliche Frage, sodass sie von den gesellschaftlich dazu legitimierten Entscheidungsträgern zu beantworten ist. Die Ergebnisse dieser Studie können dazu beitragen, die Entscheidungsgrundlage für die politisch Verantwortlichen zu verbessern.
R23|Minimum wage workers in the private sector in Poland: regional perspective|The aim of the paper is to analyse regional diversification of minimum wage workers in the private sector in Poland and identify regions more vulnerable to minimum wage increases. Firstly, we examine the regional differences in the share of minimum wage workers. Secondly, we look at the structure of minimum wage earners. Finally, we use empirical approach analogous to Nestiæ et al. (2018) to identify low-wage sections and low-wage regions. We use individual data from the Structure of Earnings Survey in Poland. The research period covers 2008-2016. Six Polish regions are identified as the low-wage ones: five economically underdeveloped provinces of Eastern Poland and one region located centrally. These regions are characterised not only by high percentage of young people working for the minimum wage, but also high share of prime age and elderly minimum wage workers. High share of minimum wage earners is not only among low-qualified workers, but also among those with secondary education. These are employed in labour intensive, low-wage sections of the economy. What is particularly interesting is the fact that the results are fairly stable over time. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study of such kind not only for Poland but also for other countries.
R23|La pobreza en Quibdó: Norte de carencias|A pesar de que la pobreza en Colombia se redujo considerablemente en las últimas cuatro décadas, Quibdó es la ciudad capital donde se mantienen los peores indicadores. El presente documento utiliza información cartográfica y espacial para caracterizar la pobreza de las comunas e identificar posibles trampas espaciales de pobreza en la capital chocoana. Los resultados muestran que la zona norte tiene los indicadores de pobreza y violencia más altos en la ciudad. No obstante las grandes inversiones en los últimos cinco años, se registra una persistencia en las condiciones de pobreza en Quibdó. Por ejemplo, el indicador de necesidades básicas insatisfechas continúa por encima del observado en varias ciudades capitales cuatro décadas atrás. Finalmente, el documento propone una opción de inversiones en varios sectores que podría ayudar a cerrar las brechas de pobreza a 2030. **** ABSTRACT: Besides an overall poverty reduction in Colombia in the last four decades, Quibdó remains as the capital city with the worst indicators. This paper assesses poverty in the communes of the city using spatial information and geographical maps attempting to identify possible spatial poverty traps. The results indicate that the north of the city faces the highest indicators of poverty and violence. Although public investment has increased in the last 5 years, the conditions of poverty persist. For example, the rate of unsatisfied basic needs remain higher than other capital cities four decades ago. To end with, the paper prioritizes investment in several sectors in order to bridge the poverty gap in 2030.
R23|Easy Come, Easy Go? Economic Shocks, Labor Migration and the Family Left Behind|This article investigates the impact of negative income shocks in migrant destination countries around the world on the domestic and international labor migration decisions of their family members left behind at origin. Exploiting differences in labor market shocks across and within destinations during the Great Recession, I find large and heterogeneous effects on both types of migration decisions. High remittance-dependent households reduced domestic and increased international labor migration in response to the shock. Low dependence ones remained largely unaffected. I provide a theoretical framework, which rationalizes this heterogeneity by the relative magnitudes of income and substitution effects caused by the shock. The results imply a deterioration in the skill selection of aggregate international migrant flows as high dependence households had below average skill levels. New international migrants targeted the same destinations as established ones from the same household, providing evidence of strong kinship migration networks. The results show that domestic and foreign migration decisions are interrelated and jointly determine aggregate migration flows.
R23|A Tale of Two Cities: An Experiment on Inequality and Preferences|In an online experiment, we exploit the existing disparities in socio-economic status within an Italian city, to study how these differences correlate with preferences in strategic and non-strategic situations. Our findings indicate that participants living in an area characterized by a high socio-economic environment tend to trust more and are more inclined to reciprocate higher levels of trust, as compared to those coming from less wealthy neighborhoods. This behavioral difference is, at least in part, driven by heterogeneities in beliefs: subjects from the most affluent part of the city have more optimistic expectations on their counterpart's trustworthiness than those living in a lower socio-economic environment. By contrast, no significant differences emerge in other preferences: generosity, risk-attitudes, and time preferences. Finally, we do not find any systematic evidence of out-group discrimination based on neighborhood identity.
R23|The deterrent effect of an anti-minaret vote on foreigners’ location choices|Abstract In a national ballot in 2009, Swiss citizens surprisingly approved an amendment to the Swiss constitution to ban the further construction of minarets. The ballot outcome manifested reservations and anti-immigrant attitudes in regions of Switzerland which had previously been hidden. We exploit this fact as a natural experiment to identify the causal effect of negative attitudes towards immigrants on foreigners’ location choices and thus indirectly on their utility. Based on a regression discontinuity design with unknown discontinuity points and administrative data on the population of foreigners, we find that the probability of their moving to a municipality which unexpectedly expressed stronger reservations decreases initially by about 40%. The effect is accompanied by a drop of housing prices in these municipalities and levels off over a period of about 5 months. Moreover, foreigners in high-skill occupations react relatively more strongly highlighting a tension when countries try to attract well-educated professionals from abroad.
R23|Firms and Farms: The Local Effects of Farm Income on Firms’ Demand|How do changes in agricultural productivity affect firms? Using the predictions of a simple multi-sector general equilibrium model of the local economy and exploiting weather-induced agricultural volatility across India, I estimate the response of manufacturing firms to changes in agricultural productivity. I show that negative agricultural productivity shocks lower the cost of labor but that this does not cause firms to hire more. Firms’ production and employment in fact decrease because the shocks also reduce local income and hence the demand that firms face. My estimates provide evidence for a significant local demand effect. I then use my framework to show that this has key policy implications. I examine the introduction of a rural workfare program and assess how it affects firms. I show that the program attenuates the impact of negative agricultural shocks on firms because of its counter-cyclical effects on local wage and demand for manufacturing goods. The results highlight how policies that target households and increase their income can affect local market size and therefore the industrial sector through their general equilibrium effects.
R23|Global bifurcation mechanism and local stability of identical and equidistant regions|We provide an analytical description of possible spatial patterns in economic geography models with three identical and equidistant regions by applying results from General Bifurcation mechanisms. We then use Pflüger's (2004, Reg Sci Urb Econ) model to show what spatial patterns can be uncovered analytically. As the freeness of trade increases, a uniform distribution undergoes a direct bifurcation that leads to a state with two identical large regions and one small region. Before this bifurcation, the model encounters a minimum point above which a curve of dual equilibria with two small identical regions and one small region emerges. From further bifurcations, the equilibrium with one large region encounters agglomeration in a single region, while the equilibrium with one small region encounters a state with two evenly populated regions and one empty region. A secondary bifurcation then leads to partial agglomeration with one small region and one large region. We show that an asymmetric equilibrium with populated regions cannot be connected with other types of equilibria. Therefore, an initially asymmetric state will remain so and preserve the ordering between region sizes.
R23|The urban wage premium in imperfect labour markets|Using administrative data for West Germany, we investigate whether part of the urban wage premium stems from fierce competition in thick labour markets. We first document fewer search frictions in denser labour markets. We further show that controlling for search frictions lowers the wage premium from a one standard deviation rise in log population density by 1.3 1.4pp in specifications including worker fixed effects. We lastly find less monopsony power in denser markets. Regional differences in monopsony power predict a wage premium of 1.4 1.9%, thereby accounting for the observed drop in the premium when controlling for labour market frictions.
R23|Education and Geographical Mobility: The Role of the Job Surplus|"Better-educated workers form many more long-distance job matches, and they move more quickly following local employment shocks. I argue this is a consequence of larger dispersion in wage offers, independent of geography. In a frictional market, this generates larger surpluses for workers in new matches, which can better justify the cost of moving - should the offer originate from far away. The market is then ""thinner"" but better integrated spatially. I motivate my hypothesis with new evidence on mobility patterns and subjective moving costs;and I test it using wage returns to local and long-distance matches over the jobs ladder."
R23|Commuting, Migration and Local Joblessness|Britain suffers from persistent spatial disparities in employment rates. This paper develops an integrated framework for analyzing two forces expected to equalize economic opportunity across areas: commuting and migration. Our framework is applicable to any level of spatial aggregation, and we use it to assess their contribution to labor market adjustment across British wards (or neighborhoods). Commuting offers only limited insurance against local shocks, because commutes are typically short and shocks are heavily correlated spatially. Analogously, migration fails to fully equalize opportunity because of strong temporal correlation in local demand shocks.
R23|Should I Stay or Should I Go? Neighbors' Effects on University Enrollment|This paper investigates whether the decision to attend university depends on university enrollment of close neighbors. I create a unique dataset combining detailed geographic information and educational records from different public agencies in Chile, and exploit the quasi-random variation generated by the rules that determine eligibility for student loans. I find that close neighbors have a large and significant impact on university enrollment of younger applicants. Potential applicants are around 11 percentage points more likely to attend university if a close neighbor enrolled the year before. This effect is particularly strong in areas with low exposure to university and among individuals who are more likely to interact; the effect decreases both with geographic and social distance and is weaker for individuals who have spent less time in the neighborhood. I also show that the increase in university attendance translates into retention and university completion. These effects are mediated by an increase in applications rather than by an improvement on applicants' academic performance. This set of results suggests that policies that expand access to university generate positive spillovers on close peers of the direct beneficiaries.
R23|Effects of Housing Transfer Taxes on Household Mobility|Housing transfer taxes are fiscally important in many countries despite evidence of substantial welfare losses found in several quasi-experimental studies. Research designs used in this prior literature are prone to attenuation bias due to spillovers from mobility or trading across control and treatment groups. We account for these spillovers by combining quasi-experimental empirical analysis with a one-sided housing market model where households act as both buyers and sellers. Using a Finnish tax reform and total population register data, we find that an increase in the transfer tax has a significant negative effect on household mobility. We calibrate our theoretical model to match the mobility rates in our data and our quasi-experimental estimate. In our setting, relying only on the quasi-experiment and ignoring the spillovers would lead to a 20% underestimation of the effect. We argue that the welfare costs of transfer taxes are larger than previously thought.
R23|Calling from the outside: The role of networks in residential mobility|Using anonymised cellphone data, we study the role of social networks in residential mobility decisions. Individuals with few local contacts are more likely to change residence. Movers strongly prefer places with more of their contacts close-by. Contacts matter because proximity to them is itself valuable and increases the enjoyment of attractive locations. They also provide hard-to-find local information and reduce frictions, especially in home-search. Local contacts who left recently or are more central are particularly influential. As people age, proximity to family gains importance relative to friends.
R23|Los legados del conflicto armado sobre la capacidad de los hogares para mitigar los choques económicos negativos: Evidencia para Colombia|Este artículo estudia los legados de las instituciones creadas en tiempos de guerra, medidas como rebelocracia, sobre la capacidad de los hogares para mitigar choques negativos de ingresos. La rebelocracia es el orden social establecido por los actores armados no estatales (AANE) en las comunidades que controlan (Arjona, 2016). Al proveer bienes públicos y unas reglas predecibles, la rebelocracia puede generar incentivos para que los hogares expandan su producción y acumulen riqueza. Esto los situaría en trayectorias de ingreso más alto frente a aquellos hogares que viven en zonas de conflicto, pero inmersas en la violencia y el caos. Si estas mejores condiciones persisten después de que los AANE abandonan el territorio, los hogares en áreas con una rebelocracia fuerte podrán mitigar mejor los choques negativos de ingreso. La estrategia empírica identifica las respuestas de los hogares rurales a choques climáticos aleatorios y estima su impacto heterogéneo respecto al nivel de rebelocracia. Con base en un panel de hogares en cuatro regiones de Colombia afectadas por el conflicto, las estimaciones controlan por variables no observables que no varían en el tiempo. El estudio encuentra que, en las regiones con una rebelocracia fuerte, los hogares mitigan mejor los impactos negativos de los choques climáticos comparados con aquellos que viven en regiones con una intervención limitada o nula de los AANE. Los primeros hogares sufren un impacto menor después de enfrentar un choque climático, y recurren menos a la migración de supervivencia. La provisión de bienes públicos explica una parte importante del efecto de la rebelocracia. Es fundamental aclarar que esto no implica que el conflicto tenga efectos positivos sobre la población. Los resultados sugieren que vivir con reglas claras en medio del conflicto es mejor que vivir en medio de la incertidumbre y el caos. Si bien este estudio no estima efectos causales, los coeficientes estimados son robustos a controlar por factores que pueden explicar la instauración de la rebelocracia.
R23|La pobreza en Quibdó: Norte de carencias|A pesar de que la pobreza en Colombia se redujo considerablemente en las últimas cuatro décadas, Quibdó es la ciudad capital donde se mantienen los peores indicadores. El presente documento utiliza información cartográfica y espacial para caracterizar la pobreza de las comunas e identificar posibles trampas espaciales de pobreza en la capital chocoana. Los resultados muestran que la zona norte tiene los indicadores de pobreza y violencia más altos en la ciudad. No obstante las grandes inversiones en los últimos cinco años, se registra una persistencia en las condiciones de pobreza en Quibdó. Por ejemplo, el indicador de necesidades básicas insatisfechas continúa por encima del observado en varias ciudades capitales cuatro décadas atrás. Finalmente, el documento propone una opción de inversiones en varios sectores que podría ayudar a cerrar las brechas de pobreza a 2030. **** ABSTRACT: Besides an overall poverty reduction in Colombia in the last four decades, Quibdó remains as the capital city with the worst indicators. This paper assesses poverty in the communes of the city using spatial information and geographical maps attempting to identify possible spatial poverty traps. The results indicate that the north of the city faces the highest indicators of poverty and violence. Although public investment has increased in the last 5 years, the conditions of poverty persist. For example, the rate of unsatisfied basic needs remain higher than other capital cities four decades ago. To end with, the paper prioritizes investment in several sectors in order to bridge the poverty gap in 2030.
R23|Do Firms Redline Workers?|Firms statistically discriminate (redline) against job candidates based on where they live. We conducted a correspondence test by sending three identical fictitious resumes to every non professional job offer posted in two main job vacancy newspapers in Bogota. The only difference between the resumes was the residential address in which the applicants lived. Two of the three resumes sent in each trio were located at the same commuting time (and geographical distance) from the job, but one resided in a low-crime neighborhood and the other in a high-crime neighborhood. The third resume was for a fictitious individual located in a low-crime neighborhood that is further away (longer commuting time and greater distance). Our experimental design allows us to explore whether employers discriminate against potential employees based on where they live, and if they do, which mechanisms are behind their discriminatory preferences. Building on the urban economics literature, we test two potential mechanisms: statistical discrimination due to negative signaling neighborhood effects and statistical discrimination based on commuting time to work. If any of these hold, we would expect employers to offer interviews to job applicants who reside in deprived or distant neighborhoods less often. We find that employers statistically discriminate (redline) based on commuting time to work. In particular, living one hour away from the vacancy reduces the callback rate by 32 percent while holding the attributes of the place of residence constant. We did not find evidence that employers respond to negative signaling effects or engages in taste based-discrimination.
R23|The missing ingredient: Distance - Internal migration and its long-term economic impact in the United States|This paper examines if internal migrants at the turn of the 20th century have influenced the long-term economic development of the counties where they settled over 100 years ago. Using Census microdata from 1880 and 1910, the distance travelled by American-born migrants between birthplace and county of residence is examined to assess its relevance for the economic development of US counties today. The settlement patterns of domestic migrants across the 48 continental states are then linked to current county-level development. Factors influencing both migration at the time and the level of development of the county today are controlled for. The results of the analysis underline the economic importance of internal migration. Counties that attracted American-born migrants more than 100 years ago are significantly richer today. Moreover, distance is crucial for the impact of internal migration on long-term economic development; the larger the distance travelled by domestic migrants, the greater the long-term economic impact on the receiving territories.
R23|Unequal Migration and Urbanisation Gains in China|We assess the role of internal migration and urbanisation in China on the nominal earnings of three groups of workers (rural migrants, low-skilled natives, and high-skilled natives). We estimate the impact of many city and city-industry characteristics that shape agglomeration economies, as well as migrant and human capital externalities and substitution effects. We also account for spatial sorting and reverse causality. Location matters for individual earnings, but urban gains are unequally distributed. High-skilled natives enjoy large gains from agglomeration and migrants at the city level. Both conclusions also hold, to a lesser extent, for low-skilled natives, who are only marginally negatively affected by migrants within their industry. By contrast, rural migrants slightly lose from migrants within their industry while otherwise gaining from migration and agglomeration, although less than natives. The different returns from migration and urbanisation are responsible for a large share of wage disparities in China.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R23|Migration and the Value of Social Networks|What is the value of a social network? Prior work suggests two distinct mechanisms that have historically been difficult to differentiate: as a conduit of information, and as a source of social and economic support. We use a rich 'digital trace' dataset to link the migration decisions of millions of individuals to the topological structure of their social networks. We find that migrants systematically prefer 'interconnected' networks (where friends have common friends) to 'expansive' networks (where friends are well connected). A micro-founded model of network-based social capital helps explain this preference: migrants derive more utility from networks that are structured to facilitate social support than from networks that efficiently transmit information.
R23|Calling from the outside: The role of networks in residential mobility|Using anonymised cellphone data, we study the role of social networks in residential mobility decisions. Individuals with few local contacts are more likely to change residence. Movers strongly prefer places with more of their contacts closeby. Contacts matter because proximity to them is itself valuable and increases the enjoyment of attractive locations. They also provide hard-to-find local information and reduce frictions, especially in home-search. Local contacts who left recently or are more central are particularly influential. As people age, proximity to family gains importance relative to friends.
R23|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: The limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
R23|Information, Mobile Communication, and Referral Effects|Information is a crucial ingredient in economic decision making. Yet measuring the extent of information exchange among individuals and its effect on economic outcomes is a difficult task. We use the universe of de-identified cellphone usage records from more than one million users in a Chinese city over twelve months to quantify information exchange among individuals and examine its role in urban labor markets. We present the first empirical evidence that information flow (measured by call volume) correlates strongly with worker flows, a pattern that persists at different levels of geographic aggregation. Conditional on information flow, socioeconomic diversity in the source of information (social contacts), especially that associated with the working population, is crucial and helps to predict worker flows. We supplement our phone records with auxiliary data sets on residential housing prices, job postings, and firm attributes from administrative data. Information passed on through social contacts is valuable: referred jobs are associated with higher monetary gains, a higher likelihood to transition from part-time to full-time, reduced commuting time, and a higher probability of entering desirable jobs. Referral information is more valuable for young workers, people switching jobs from suburbs to the inner city, and those changing their industrial sectors. Firms receiving referrals are more likely to have successful recruits and experience faster growth.
R23|Cognitive Hubs and Spatial Redistribution|In the U.S., cognitive non-routine (CNR) occupations associated with higher wages are disproportionately represented in larger cities. To study the allocation of workers across cities, we propose and quantify a spatial equilibrium model with multiple industries that employ CNR and alternative (non-CNR) occupations. Productivity is city-industry-occupation specific and partly determined by externalities across local workers. We estimate that the productivity of CNR workers in a city depends significantly on both its share of CNR workers and total employment. Together with heterogeneous preferences for locations, these externalities imply equilibrium allocations that are not efficient. An optimal policy that benefits workers equally across occupations incentivizes the formation of cognitive hubs, leading to larger fractions of CNR workers in some of today's largest cities. At the same time, these cities become smaller to mitigate congestion effects while cities that are initially small increase in size. Large and small cities end up expanding industries in which they already concentrate, while medium-size cities tend to diversify across industries. The optimal allocation thus features transfers to non-CNR workers who move from large to small cities consistent with the implied change in the industrial composition landscape. Finally, we show that the optimal policy reinforces equilibrium trends observed since 1980. However, these trends were in part driven by low growth in real-estate productivity in CNR-abundant cities that reduced welfare.
R23|Interaction of Public and Private Employment: Evidence from a German Government Move|We use the German government move from Bonn to Berlin in 1999 to test competing views about the impact of public employment on private sector activity in a local labor market. A relocated public sector job might create new jobs in an area as it increases demand for locally-produced goods and services, or crowd out existing jobs due to upward pressure on housing rents. Using employment data from a panel of a 50% sample of establishments across 190 Berlin postcodes, we apply a treatment intensity approach which takes the possibility of spillovers into account. Results indicate that the arrival of 100 public sector jobs into an area generates 55 additional jobs in the private sector. There is evidence of spillovers: relocations up to a distance of 1km from a postcode boundary increases employment in the private sector by 36 jobs. These effects are coming through job gains in the service sector, while manufacturing employment is not influenced by the relocation.
R23|Migration and Informal Insurance|Do new migration opportunities for rural households change the nature and extent of informal risk sharing? We experimentally document that randomly offering poor rural households subsidies to migrate leads to a 40% improvement in risk sharing in their villages. We explain this finding using a model of endogenous migration and risk sharing. When migration is risky, the network can facilitate migration by insuring that risk, which in turn crowds-in risk sharing when new migration opportunities arise. We estimate the model and find that welfare gains from migration subsidies are 42% larger, compared with the welfare gains without spillovers, once we account for the changes in risk sharing. Our analysis illustrates that (a) ignoring the spillover effects on the network gives an incomplete picture of the welfare effects of migration, and (b) informal risk sharing may be an essential determinant of the takeup of new income-generating technologies.
R23|Determinants of Regional Fertility in Russia : A Dynamic Panel Data Analysis|The aim of this paper is to empirically examine the regional determinants of fertility rate in Russia using panel data for the period of 2005–2015. The estimation results of a system GMM dynamic model revealed that economic growth, employment opportunity, favorable local business conditions, educational opportunity, quality of social infrastructure, and housing supply serve to increase the fertility rate in Russian regions, while the presence of a Slavic population, migration inflow, poverty and ecological risks tend to suppress it. Furthermore, we found that combinations of factors that strongly affect the reproductive behavior of Russian women vary greatly among age groups and regions. To mitigate the declining trend of fertility in Russia, it is necessary to implement policies that take generational differences and regional heterogeneity into serious consideration.
R23|Understanding migration aversion using elicited counterfactual choice probabilities|Residential mobility rates in the United States have fallen considerably over the past three decades. The cause of the long-term decline remains largely unexplained. In this paper we investigate the relative importance of alternative drivers of residential mobility, including job opportunities, neighborhood and housing amenities, social networks, and housing and moving costs, using data from two waves of the New York Fed’s Survey of Consumer Expectations. Our hypothetical choice methodology elicits choice probabilities from which we recover the distribution of preferences for location and mobility attributes without concerns about omitted variables and selection biases that hamper analyses based on observed mobility choices alone. We estimate substantial heterogeneity in the willingness to pay (WTP) for location and housing amenities across different demographic groups, with income considerations, proximity to friends and family, neighbors’ shared norms and social values, and monetary and psychological costs of moving being key drivers of migration and residential location choices. The estimates point to potentially important amplifying roles played by family, friends, and shared norms and values in the decline of residential mobility rates.
R23|The Consequences of Friendships: Evidence on the Effect of Social Relationships in School on Academic Achievement|This paper examines the impact of youth friendship links on student’s own academic performance (grade point average) using the Add Health. We estimate a reduced form, high dimensional fixed effects model of within cohort or grade friendship links, and use this model to predict each student’s number of friends whose mothers have a four year college degree. The effects of friendship links are identified using across-cohort, within school variation in demographic composition of the student’s cohort or grade. We find that increases in number of friendship links with students whose mothers are college educated raises grade point average among girls, but not among boys. Additional analyses suggest a positive view of the school environment and a perception of one’s self as functioning well in that environment as possible mechanisms. The effects are relatively broad based across students over maternal education, racial and ethnic composition and across schools that vary in demographic composition over the same variables.
R23|Upward pressure on wages and the interregional trade spillover effects under demand-side shocks|The paper illustrates the effect of a permanent demand-side shock in the perturbed regions and the associated spillover effects in the non-perturbed regions using the RHOMOLO spatial-numerical general equilibrium model of the EU economy. We test to what extent gradual upward pressure on wages generated by a domestic increase in demand alters the magnitude of the economic impacts in the long-run and the degree to which this could result in changes in trade patterns. We also assess the size and the direction of the effects with varying trade substitution elasticities and under both perfectly and imperfectly competitive product markets.
R23|Minimum wage regulation in Switzerland: Evidence from a direct-democracy experiment|This paper provides a first set of results on the impact of minimum wage regulation in Switzerland. We study the effects of an unexpected Supreme Court ruling mandating the Swiss canton Neuchâtel to enforce a minimum hourly wage of around CHF 20 previously accepted via popular ballot. Given policy discontinuity at cantonal borders, we design a two-wave survey of restaurants to measure wages, employment, workers characteristics, and prices, and administer it in Neuchâtel as well as in geographically proximate districts of neighboring cantons. Our data covers pre- and post-enforcement outcomes for 113 restaurants, with information on more than 800 employees distributed over two survey waves. Difference-in-differences estimation on restaurant-level outcomes and on the distribution of wages in our sample indicates small and statistically insignificant impacts on employment and prices, although we find evidence of disemployment effects as a function of regulatory exposure. Worker-level data further suggests that labor-labor substitution is at work, with negative employment spillovers for workers with wages above the regulatory minimum and some evidence that the share of less-qualified workers increases.
R23|Natural amenities and the spatial distribution of Swiss income|The present article describes how the spatial distribution of income in Switzerland is related to natural amenities. We explore the link between inequalities in Swiss municipalities and the presence of lakes, rivers, mountains, good accessibility and green amenities. By using fiscal data on average income, Gini index and density of taxpayers in different income brackets, we confirm that a larger variety of landscape is associated with larger spatial income differentials. We also show that inequalities are more pronounced within municipalities located in a particularly nice environment.
R23|Competition, Institutions and Company-sponsored Training|The new training literature argues that imperfect labour markets (i.e. less competition) lead to an increasing productivity-wage wedge. We show that this relation does not hold for all institutional and market environments. We use representative establishment panel data for Germany and apply a control function approach for estimating the production function to correct for endogeneity in input factors. We show that the skill-productivity gradient responds stronger to increases in product market competition and labour market density than the skill-wage gradient. This leads to an increasing productivity-wage wedge in more competitive environments. Similarly, works councils have a stronger effect on the skill-productivity than on the skill-wage gradient while both gradients are similar in the presence of union wage bargaining. Our results call for a more nuanced interpretation of the exposition of the new training literature to understand company-sponsored training across institutional and market environments.
R23|Labor Market Frictions and Moving Costs of the Employed and Unemployed|This paper examines the role of labor market frictions and moving costs in explaining the migration behavior of US workers by employment status. Using data on low-skilled workers from the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), I estimate a dynamic model of individual labor supply and migration decisions. The model incorporates a reduced-form search model and allows for migration for non-market reasons. My estimates show that moving costs are substantial and that labor market frictions primarily inhibit migration of the employed. I use the model to study migration responses to local labor market shocks and to a moving subsidy. Workers' preferences for non-market amenities, coupled with substantial moving costs and employment frictions, grant market power to incumbent employers. Large moving costs also likely affect employers' recruiting behavior.
R23|The Effect of Social Connectedness on Crime: Evidence from the Great Migration|This paper estimates the effect of social connectedness on crime across U.S. cities from 1960- 2009. Migration networks among African Americans from the South generated variation across destinations in the concentration of migrants from the same birth town. Using this novel source of variation, we find that social connectedness considerably reduces murders, robberies, assaults, burglaries, larcenies, and motor vehicle thefts, with a one standard deviation increase in social connectedness reducing murders by 13 percent and motor vehicle thefts by 9 percent. Our results appear to be driven by stronger relationships among older generations reducing crime committed by youth.
R23|Refugees welcome? Understanding the regional heterogeneity of anti-foreigner hate crimes in Germany|In this article, we examine anti-foreigner hate crime in the wake of the large influx of asylum seekers to Germany in 2014 and 2015. By exploiting the quasi-experimental assignment of asylum seekers to German regions, we estimate the causal effect of an unexpected and sudden change in the share of the foreign-born population on anti-foreigner hate crime. Our county-level analysis shows that not simply the size of regional asylum seeker infl ows drives the increase in hate crime, but the rapid compositional change of the residential population: Areas with previously low shares of foreign-born inhabitants that face large-scale immigration of asylum seekers witness the strongest upsurge in hate crime. Economically deprived regions and regions with a legacy of anti-foreigner hate crimes are also found to be prone to hate crime against refugees. However, when we explicitly control for East-West German differences, the predominance of native-born residents at the local level stands out as the single most important factor explaining the sudden increase in hate crime.
R23|Language Premium Myth or Fact: Evidence from Migrant Workers of Guangdong, China|"Using unique matched employer-employee data from China, we discover that migrant workers in the manufacturing industry who are proficient in the local dialect earn lower wages than those who are not. We also find that workers with better dialect skills are more likely to settle for lower wages in exchange for social insurance. We hypothesize that they are doing so in the hope of obtaining permanent residency and household registration status (hukou) in the host city where they work. Further tests show that the phenomenon of ""exchanging wages for social insurance participation"" is more pronounced among workers employed in smaller enterprises. Moreover, migrant workers with better language skills have a stronger desire to stay in the host city. Our conclusions are robust to different specifications, even after addressing the endogeneity issue for language acquisition. The present study provides a new perspective on the impact of language fluency on social integration among migrants, one of the most disadvantaged groups in developing countries."
R23|On the Road (Again): Commuting and Local Employment Elasticities in Germany|This paper uses the quantitative spatial model with heterogeneous locations linked by costly goods trade, migration and commuting developed in Monte et al. (2018) to address the workings of local labor markets in Germany. One key contribution concerns the analysis of the role of the expenditure share of housing in the economy. We provide arguments that, in accordance with Rognlie (2015), for an economy-wide quantitative exercise, this share should be chosen lower than stipulated in much of the extant research. Our analyses show that the local general equilibrium employment and resident elasticities with respect to local productivity shocks are significantly higher with a lower housing share. Moreover, simple ex-ante observable commuting measures have very little predictive power for these general equilibrium elasticities when the housing share is small. The size of the housing share turns out to play no crucial role for two further results, however. First, employment and resident elasticities are very heterogeneous across German local labor markets, irrespective of the housing share. Second, the housing share has only little influence on the welfare effects and location patterns of counterfactual commuting cost reductions.
R23|Understanding Migration Aversion using Elicited Counterfactual Choice Probabilities|Residential mobility rates in the U.S. have fallen considerably over the past three decades. The cause of the long-term decline remains largely unexplained. In this paper we investigate the relative importance of alternative drivers of residential mobility, including job opportunities, neighborhood and housing amenities, social networks and housing and moving costs, using data from two waves of the NY Fed’s Survey of Consumer Expectations. Our hypothetical choice methodology elicits choice probabilities from which we recover the distribution of preferences for location and mobility attributes without concerns about omitted variables and selection biases that hamper analyses based on observed mobility choices alone. We estimate substantial heterogeneity in the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for location and housing amenities across different demographic groups, with income considerations, proximity to friends and family, neighbors’ shared norms and social values, and monetary and psychological costs of moving being key drivers of migration and residential location choices. The estimates point to potentially important amplifying roles played by family, friends, and shared norms and values in the decline of residential mobility rates.
R23|Economic Opportunities and Gender Equity: The Migration and Education Decisions of Young Women from Rural China|We study how the migration decision of young women in rural China is shaped by the return arrangement and opportunities of college education. Women outnumbered men in young rural-urban migrants in the early 2000s, but the surplus of young women has recently disappeared. We propose that the temporary nature of migration and an earlier return time relative to men are the major reasons that women migrate at a younger age. When higher education expansion increased women's chance of permanent migration, women stayed in school longer. Empirical evidence is consistent with this hypothesis. Marriage motives and demand factors are also considered.
R23|Inter-City Spillover and Intra-City Agglomeration Effects among Local Labour Markets in China|We examine how city size affect wage levels of cities (agglomeration externality) and how it influence surrounding cities (spill-over effect) in China for the period between 1995 and 2009. Using spatial fixed-effect panel data models and allowing for endogenous and exogenous spatial dependence, we find strong positive city size effect on real wage levels, which confirms the existence of agglomeration economy within cities. We also find significant differences in both the direct and indirect effect of factors such as FDI between more and less population dense areas.
R23|Sons or Daughters? The Impact of Children's Migration on the Health and Well-Being of Parents Left Behind|We study the impact of adult children's internal migration on the health and subjective well-being of elderly parents left behind, distinguishing between the gender of the migrant children. To overcome migration endogeneity, we exploit novel and exogenous variation in children's astrological characteristics and apply instrumental variables methods. We find a positive effect of the migration of daughters on parents' health and life satisfaction, but no such beneficial effects when sons migrate. We further explore the mechanism through which this gender-biased migration effect may arise. Our findings have important implications for regions and countries that have high rates of female emigration.
R23|Neighbourhood and School Poverty Simultaneously Predicting Educational Achievement, Taking into Account Timing and Duration of Exposure|Research on neighbourhood effects indicates that neighbourhood poverty is related to educational outcomes of youth, however, much less attention is spend on studying neighbourhood and school effects simultaneously. Because the demographic composition of both contexts likely overlaps to some extent, it is possible that the effect both contexts have is not independent of each other. Throughout the early teenage years the neighbourhood and school contexts can vary, advocating for a life-course approach, including how the timing and duration of exposure to either contexts affect educational achievement. Using the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) birth cohort (N=4,502), we employed cross-classified multilevel models to examine the timing and duration of exposure to poverty in neighbourhood and school contexts between ages 10 and 16, to predict educational achievement of adolescents at age 16. Our results indicate that neighbourhood poverty impacts on educational achievement, independent of school poverty. Furthermore, we found that for neighbourhood poverty, especially enduring exposure impacts on educational achievement, while the timing of exposure does not play a role. However, for school poverty, both timing and duration play a role: longer exposure is related to lower achievement, but also exposure at an earlier age has a stronger impact than exposure at a later age. Finally, the lowest educational achievement was observed in adolescents who were exposed to poverty in both contexts for the full observation period. In sum, our analyses indicate that, when studying contextual disadvantage, it is crucial to consider how variations over time in different contexts might be related and how they might influence the study.
R23|Did the Post-1986 Decline in the Homeownership Rate Benefit the New Zealand Labour Market? A Spatial-Econometric Exploration|The proportion of New Zealand households living in owner-occupied dwellings has declined steadily since the early 1990s. The unemployment rate declined steadily as well, except for upward shifts due to the late 1990s Asian Financial Crisis and the Global Financial Crisis a decade later. Research initiated by Andrew Oswald in the 1990s posits that declining homeownership and declining unemployment are linked and that the causality runs from high homeownership leading to high unemployment. The international empirical evidence for this hypothesis is rather mixed. In this paper we revisit the issue with New Zealand census data for commuting-defined labour market areas from 1986 until 2013. Allowing for spatial spillovers in our data, we apply a general nesting spatial econometric model. We also consider the potentially different impacts of freehold and mortgaged homeownership. Generally, the evidence that a declining homeownership rate contributes to a lower unemployment is statistically fragile, but a greater prevalence of freehold ownership and mortgaged ownership below the mean across labour market areas do have small upward effects on a labour market area’s unemployment rate.
R23|Old Sins Cast Long Shadows: The Long-Term Impact of the Resettlement of the Sudetenland on Residential Migration|We analyze the long-term impact of the resettlement of the Sudetenland after World War II on residential migration. This event involved expulsion of ethnic Germans and almost complete depopulation of an area of a country and its rapid resettlement by 2 million Czech inhabitants. Results based on nearest neighbor matching and regression discontinuity design show a higher population churn in resettled areas that continues today. The populations in resettled areas and in the remainder of the country share similar values and do not differ statistically in terms of their propensity to give donations, attend social events, and participate in voluntary work. However, we observe that resettled settlements have fewer local club memberships, lower turnout in municipal elections, and less frequently organized social events. This finding indicates substantially lower local social capital in the resettled settlements that is likely to have caused higher residential migration. This explanation is consistent with theoretical models of the impact of social capital on migration decisions.
R23|Heterogeneous displacement effects of migrant labor supply - quasi-experimental evidence from Germany|We provide estimates of the effect of migrant labor supply on resident employment. We exploit variation in the number of asylum seekers eligible to the suspension of a major hiring restriction implemented in a subset of German counties. Our difference-in-difference design allows us to provide evidence from a labor supply shock of migrants on local markets net of their additional spending at arrival that might mask labor market displacement effects. Despite this, we do not find a negative effect on employment growth of natives but only on other foreign residents. This also holds for unskilled employees. Therefore, our findings can be interpreted as the consequence of differential substitutability of different subgroups, where asylum seekers are substitutes to other immigrants but not natives - even when they are similarly qualified.
R23|Getting the First Job – Size and Quality of Ethnic Enclaves for Refugee Labor Market Entry|This article analyses the relationship between the size and the quality of ethnic enclaves on immigrants’ labour market integration. Using exogenously defined grid cells to delineate neighbourhoods we find robust empirical evidence that the employment rate of the respective immigrant group in the vicinity (as a measure of enclave quality) facilitates labour market integration of new immigrants. The influence of the overall employment rate and the share of co-nationals in the neighbourhood tend to be positive, but less robust. We thus conclude that the quality is more important than the size of the ethnic enclave in helping new immigrants finding jobs.
R23|Welfare Gains from the Variety Growth|We estimate the variety gains of trade in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania following the fall of the iron curtain more than a quarter of a century ago. We apply the methodology of Feenstra (1994); Broda and Weinstein (2006); Ardelean and Lugovskyy (2010) and Soderbery (2015) to domestic and international trade data for the period 1988-1997. Although, there was a decline in the number of local varieties during this period, an increase in the number of import varieties from the EU more than outweighed this decline. The increasing variety of imported goods from EU countries substantially lowered the cost of living, resulting in welfare gains to consumers that range from 0.73% in Latvia to 1.28% of GDP per year in Estonia.
R23|Those Who Stayed: Individualism, Self-Selection and Cultural Change during the Age of Mass Migration|This paper examines the joint evolution of emigration and individualism in Scandinavia during the Age of Mass Migration (1850-1920). A long-standing hypothesis holds that people of a stronger individualistic mindset are more likely to migrate as they suffer lower costs of abandoning existing social networks. Building on this hypothesis, I propose a theory of cultural change where migrant self-selection generates a relative push away from individualism, and towards collectivism, in migrantsending locations through a combination of initial distributional e¤ects and channels of intergenerational cultural transmission. Due to the interdependent relationship between emigration and individualism, emigration is furthermore associated with cultural convergence across subnational locations. I combine various sources of empirical data, including historical population census records and passenger lists of emigrants, and test the relevant elements of the proposed theory at the individual and subnational district level, and in the short and long run. Together, the empirical results suggest that individualists were more likely to migrate than collectivists, and that the Scandinavian countries would have been considerably more individualistic and culturally diverse, had emigration not taken place.
R23|Spatial variations and clustering in the rates of youth unemployment and NEET|We investigate the â€˜determinantsâ€™ of spatial variations in youth unemployment and NEET rates, and the presence of spatial clusters, for Italy, Spain and the UK. Using Labour Force Survey data for the period 1993-2011 at a â€˜regionalâ€™ level we obtain broadly consistent measures of quarterly youth unemployment and NEET rates. Our findings suggest that youths are sensitive to aggregate labour market conditions with older youths being more cyclically sensitive than are teenagers. We find a discouraged worker effect, again larger for older youths than for teenagers. In the UK and Spain, temporary jobs are preferred to part-time jobs, perhaps as a way of avoiding unemployment, whereas in Italy the opposite occurs. There is evidence of spatial clustering of youth unemployment and NEET rates. Our paper concludes with a discussion of the implications for regional and labour market policies.
R23|Moving Towards a Better Future? Migration and Children's Health and Education|Do the returns to migration extend beyond migrants themselves and accrue to the children of migrants? Drawing upon data from a unique 19-year longitudinal survey from Tanzania, this paper empirically investigates this question by exploiting the variation in the outcomes of the children of migrants and the children of the migrants’ siblings who stayed behind conditional upon a range of individual characteristics of their parents. I show that parental migration has important implications for child development. This relation depends on the destination and the timing of the move. More specifically, children whose parents migrated from rural areas to cities are heavier, taller and more educated for their age. The effects on height and schooling are strongest for children who were exposed to the city environment during their early childhood. In contrast, children whose parents moved to a different rural village do not appear to experience any health advantage and those moving alongside their parents even start schooling at a later age. In addition to conferring a broader view of the returns to physical mobility, this analysis contributes to the debate on the origin of spatial inequalities in developing countries.
R23|The Contrasting Importance of Quality of Life and Quality of Business for Domestic and International Migrants|We examine whether bilateral regional migration flows are driven by the city’s quality of life (QL) or quality of business (QB). The QL and QB measures are constructed using (quality-adjusted) rents and wages in each city. QL and QB reflect the willingness to pay of households and firms, respectively, for local amenities. The measures are constructed for 31 urban areas in New Zealand using five-yearly census data covering 1986 to 2013. We adopt a gravity model of regional migration – augmented by destination and origin QL and QB – to model bilateral flows of working-age migrants (post tertiary education and pre-retirement age). We also model flows between urban and rural areas and flows for the urban areas to and from overseas locations. We find different attractors for international versus domestic migrants according to the type of city amenity. International migrants are more attracted to cities with productive amenities whereas domestic migrants are more attracted to places with consumption amenities. Thus, in deciding on the type of city amenity to enhance, city officials implicitly choose the type of migrant that they attract as well as the type of city that may result.
R23|Housing Markets and Migration: Evidence from New Zealand|New Zealand's large and volatile external migration flows generate significant year-to-year fluctuations in the demand for residential housing. This paper uses population data from the 1986, 1991, 1996, 2001 and 2006 New Zealand Censuses, house sales price data from Quotable Value New Zealand and rent data from the Department of Building and Housing to examine how population change, international migration, including the return migration of New Zealanders abroad, and internal migration affect rents and sales prices of both apartments and houses in different housing markets in New Zealand. Our analysis focuses on the relationship between the changes in the population in local areas and changes in house sale prices and rents in these areas. Focusing on changes allows us to control for time-invariant unobservable characteristics of local areas that either attract or repel individuals and lead to differential costs of housing.
R23|Old sins cast long shadows: The Long-term impact of the resettlement of the Sudetenland on residential|We analyze the long-term impact of the resettlement of the Sudetenland after World War~II on residential migration. This event involved expulsion of ethnic Germans and almost complete depopulation of an area of a country and its rapid resettlement by 2 million Czech inhabitants. Results based on nearest neighbor matching and regression discontinuity design show a higher population churn in resettled areas that continues today. The populations in resettled areas and in the remainder of the country share similar values and do not differ statistically in terms of their propensity to give donations, attend social events, and participate in voluntary work. However, we observe that resettled settlements have fewer local club memberships, lower turnout in municipal elections, and less frequently organized social events. This finding indicates substantially lower local social capital in the resettled settlements that is likely to have caused higher residential migration. This explanation is consistent with theoretical models of the impact of social capital on migration decisions.
R23|Mentally Spent: Credit Conditions and Mental Health|In light of the human suffering and economic costs associated with mental illness, we provide the first assessment of whether local credit conditions shape the incidence of mental depression. Using several empirical strategies, we discover that bank regulatory reforms that improved local credit conditions reduced mental depression among low-income households and the impact was largest in counties dominated by bank-dependent firms. On the mechanisms, we find that the regulatory reforms boosted employment, income, and mental health among low-income individuals in bank-dependent counties, but the regulatory reforms did not increase borrowing by these individuals.
R23|Unity in Diversity? How Intergroup Contact Can Foster Nation Building|Throughout history, many governments have introduced policies to unite diverse groups through a shared sense of national identity. However, intergroup relationships at the local level are often slow to develop and confounded by spatial sorting and segregation. We shed new light on the long-run process of nation building using one of history's largest resettlement programs. Between 1979 and 1988, the Transmigration program in Indonesia relocated two million voluntary migrants from the Inner Islands of Java and Bali to the Outer Islands, in an effort to integrate geographically segregated ethnic groups. Migrants could not choose their destinations, and the unprecedented scale of the program created hundreds of new communities with varying degrees of diversity. We exploit this policy-induced variation to identify how diversity shapes incentives to integrate more than a decade after resettlement. Using rich data on language use at home, marriage, and identity choices, we find stronger integration in diverse communities. To understand why changes in diversity did not lead to social anomie or conflict, we identify mechanisms that influence intergroup relationships, including residential segregation, cultural distance, and perceived economic and political competition from migrants. Overall, our findings contribute lessons for the design of resettlement policies and provide a unique lens into the intergenerational process of integration and nation building.
R23|The Impact of Global Warming on Rural-Urban Migrations: Evidence from Global Big Data|This paper examines the impact of temperature changes on rural-urban migration using a 56km×56km grid cell level dataset covering the whole world at 10-year frequency during the period 1970-2000. We find that rising temperatures reduce rural-urban migration in poor countries and increase such migration in middle-income countries. These asymmetric migration responses are consistent with a simple model where rural-urban earnings differentials and liquidity constraints interact to determine rural-to-urban migration flows. We also confirm these temperature effects using country-level observations constructed by aggregating the grid cell level data. We project that expected warming in the next century will encourage further urbanization in middle-income countries such as Argentina, but it will slow down urban transition in poor countries like Malawi and Niger.
R23|Information, Mobile Communication, and Referral Effects|Information is a crucial ingredient in economic decision making. Yet measuring the extent of information exchange among individuals and its effect on economic outcomes is a difficult task. We use the universe of de-identified cellphone usage records from more than one million users in a Chinese city over twelve months to quantify information exchange among individuals and examine the role of referrals -- human carriers of information -- in urban labor markets. We present the first evidence that information flow (measured by call volume) correlates strongly with worker flows, a pattern that persists at different levels of geographic aggregation. Condition on information flow, socioeconomic diversity in information sources (social contacts), especially that associated with the working population, is crucial and helps to predict worker flows. We supplement our phone records with auxiliary data sets on residential housing prices, job postings, and firm attributes from administrative data. Information passed on through referrals is valuable: referred jobs are associated with higher monetary gains, a higher likelihood to transition from part-time to full-time, reduced commuting time, and a higher probability of entering desirable jobs. Referral information is more valuable for young workers, people switching jobs from suburbs to the inner city, and those changing their industrial sector. Firms receiving referrals are more likely to have successful recruits and experience faster growth.
R23|Migration and Informal Insurance|Do new migration opportunities for rural households change the nature and extent of informal risk sharing? We experimentally document that randomly offering poor rural households subsidies to migrate leads to a 40% improvement in risk sharing in their villages. We explain this finding using a model of endogenous migration and risk sharing. When migration is risky, the network can facilitate migration by insuring that risk, which in turn crowds-in risk sharing when new migration opportunities arise. We estimate the model and find that welfare gains from migration subsidies are 42% larger, compared with the welfare gains without spillovers, once we account for the changes in risk sharing. Our analysis illustrates that (a) ignoring the spillover effects on the network gives an incomplete picture of the welfare effects of migration, and (b) informal risk sharing may be an essential determinant of the takeup of new income-generating technologies.
R23|Income Growth and the Distributional Effects of Urban Spatial Sorting|We explore the impact of rising incomes at the top of the distribution on spatial sorting patterns within large U.S. cities. We develop and quantify a spatial model of a city with heterogeneous agents and nonhomothetic preferences for locations with different amenities of endogenous quality. As the rich get richer, their increased demand for luxury amenities available downtown drives housing prices up in downtown areas. The poor are made worse off, either being displaced or paying higher rents for amenities that they do not value as much. Endogenous provision of private amenities amplifies the mechanism, while public provision of other amenities in part curbs it. We quantify the corresponding impact on well-being inequality. Through the lens of the quantified model, the change in the income distribution between 1990 and 2014 led to neighborhood change and spatial resorting within urban areas that increased the welfare of richer households relative to that of poorer households by an additional 1.7 percentage points on top of their differential income growth.
R23|Cognitive Hubs and Spatial Redistribution|In the U.S., cognitive non-routine (CNR) occupations associated with higher wages are disproportionately represented in larger cities. To study the allocation of workers across cities, we propose and quantify a spatial equilibrium model with multiple industries that employ CNR and alternative (non-CNR) occupations. Productivity is city-industry-occupation specific and partly determined by externalities across local workers. We estimate that the productivity of CNR workers in a city depends significantly on both its share of CNR workers and total employment. Together with heterogeneous preferences for locations, these externalities imply equilibrium allocations that are not efficient. An optimal policy that benefits workers equally across occupations incentivizes the formation of cognitive hubs, leading to larger fractions of CNR workers in some of today's largest cities. At the same time, these cities become smaller to mitigate congestion effects while cities that are initially small increase in size. Large and small cities end up expanding industries in which they already concentrate, while medium-size cities tend to diversify across industries. The optimal allocation thus features transfers to non-CNR workers who move from large to small cities consistent with the implied change in the industrial composition landscape. Finally, we show that the optimal policy reinforces equilibrium trends observed since 1980. However, these trends were in part driven by low growth in real-estate productivity in CNR-abundant cities that reduced welfare.
R23|Monopsony in Spatial Equilibrium|An emerging labor economics literature studies the consequences of firms exercising market power in local labor markets. These monopsony models have implications for trends in earnings inequality. The extent of this market power is likely to vary across local labor markets. In choosing what market to live and work in, workers tradeoff wages, rents and local amenities. Building on the Rosen/Roback spatial equilibrium model, we investigate how the existence of local monopsony power affects the cross-sectional spatial distribution of wages and rents across cities. We find an employment-weighted elasticity of land prices to concentration of –0.034—similar to Rinz (2018) reported elasticity of compensation to concentration. This finding has implications for who bears the economic incidence of labor market power. We present two extensions of the model focusing on the role of migration costs and worker skill heterogeneity.
R23|Measuring and assessing talent attractiveness in OECD countries|This paper introduces a new set of indicators aimed at benchmarking how OECD countries fare in attracting talented migrants. Three different profiles of talent are considered: workers with graduate (master or doctorate) degrees, entrepreneurs, and university students. After providing a definition of the notion of talent attractiveness, this paper develops a conceptual framework for the study of the phenomenon, and discusses the variables used to construct the composite indicators. Sensitivity analysis is performed in order to make sure the indicators are robust to several statistical checks. Finally, the paper documents the attractiveness of OECD countries to the different profiles of talented migrants.
R23|The Effect of Employer Tenure on Wages in Japan|We estimate the effects of employer tenure on wages based on the instrumental variable method and by using the Japan Household Panel Survey (JHPS/KHPS) from 2004 to 2014. We cannot reject the hypothesis that employer tenure significantly contributes to the wage growth after correcting for the omitted variable biases due to individuals' unobserved abilities and unobserved matching qualities, while the ordinary least squares estimators imply substantial returns to employer tenure. These results are robust across subsamples and do not depend on the estimation method. We conclude that the return to employer tenure may be less important in Japan than has been specified in previous studies.
R23|Future-Proofing the WA Economy: A roadmap to industrial diversification and regional growth|Future-Proofing the WA Economy is the fourth report in the Bankwest Curtin Economics Centre’s Focus on Industry report series. The report recommends the implementation of a ‘smart specialisation’ approach to regional diversification, to ensure that new development opportunities build on existing regional capabilities and capitalise on local conditions and networks. Of course, this doesn’t mean taking our ‘foot off the gas’ in the parts of the economy that are going well. A fundamental element of smart specialisation is to support those industries that the regions are leading in. But the smart specialisation policy is useful to encourage diversification into new industries that build on WA’s existing advantages. This report contributes an important new evidence base to inform the State’s diversification strategy, based on a data-driven approach to identify current industry strengths and emerging opportunities in each of WA’s ten regions. The report puts forward a series of recommendations to support the State’s diversification strategies. In doing so, our hope is that more economic development opportunities in Western Australia will be seized rather than lost.
R23|Assimilation of rural-urban migrants under a less restrictive internal migration policy: Evidence from Indonesia|This paper provides new evidence on how a relatively open internal migration policy can influence migrant assimilation outcomes. We revisit the findings of previous studies on international labour migration in developing countries by investigating the economic consequences of moving people from rural areas to four Indonesian cities in which international migration is relatively free. The empirical investigation uses cross-sectional and individual-level panel data techniques. The results suggest that Indonesian migrants do not experience earnings penalties following their arrival in urban areas but have persistently higher earnings than their urban non-migrant counterparts. However, the higher earnings are accompanied by a worrying decline in migrant mental health. The finding of persistently higher earnings contrasts with the results of studies in countries such as China and Vietnam, which have more restrictive policies for rural–urban migration. We argue that economic assimilation can be highly successful in developing economies if the internal migration regime is relatively open, yet it creates an adverse mental health consequence.
R23|Modeling and forecasting population in Bangladesh: a Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Bangladesh from 1960 to 2017, I model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Bangladesh annual total population is neither I (1) nor I (2) but for simplicity purposes, the researcher has assumed it is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (4, 2, 1) model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is very stable and quite reliable. The results of the study reveal that total population in Bangladesh will continue to sharply rise in the next three decades. In order to deal with the threats posed by a large population, 3 policy recommendations have been suggested.
R23|Can Algeria be the first African country to outsmart the Malthusian population trap? Insights from the ARIMA approach|Using annual time series data on total population in Algeria from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Algeria annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (4, 2, 0) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented model is stable and that its residuals are integrated of order zero. The results of the study reveal that total population in Algeria will continue to rise gradually in the next three decades and in 2050 Algeria’s total population will be approximately 62 million people. In order to outsmart the Malthusian population trap, 4 policy prescriptions have been suggested for consideration by the government of Algeria.
R23|Forecasting total population in Yemen using Box-Jenkins ARIMA models|Using annual time series data on total population in Yemen from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Yemen annual total population is neither I (1) nor I (2) but for simplicity purposes, the researcher has assumed it is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (10, 2, 0) model as the best model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is indeed stable and its residuals are stationary in levels. The results of the study reveal that total population in Yemen will continue to rise sharply in the next three decades and in 2050 Yemen’s total population will be approximately 52 million people. In order to benefit from an increase in total population in Yemen, 4 policy recommendations have been suggested for consideration by policy makers in Yemen.
R23|A Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach to the population question in Pakistan: A reliable prognosis|Employing annual time series data on total population in Pakistan from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Based on the minimum AIC and Theil’s U, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 1) model. The diagnostic tests indicate that the presented model is stable. The results of the study reveal that total population in Pakistan will continue to sharply rise within the next three decades, for up to approximately 324 million people by 2050. In order to address the threats posed by such a population explosion, 3 policy recommendations have been put forward.
R23|Where is Eritrea going in terms of population growth? Insights from the ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Eritrea from 1960 to 2011, we model and forecast total population over the next 39 years using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Eritrea annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (2, 2, 1) model as the best model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is quite stable. The results of the study establishes that total population in Eritrea will gradually rise in the next 39 years and in 2050 Eritrea’s total population will be approximately 7.6 million people. In order to take advantage of the expected increase in total population in Eritrea, 3 policy recommendations have been proposed.
R23|Predicting total population in India: A Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in India from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests show that Indian annual total population data is I (2). Based on both the AIC and Theil’s U, the study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 3) model. The diagnostic tests further confirm that the presented model is stable and quite acceptable. The results of the study reveal that total population in India will continue to sharply rise in the next three decades, thereby posing a threat to both natural and non-renewable resources. In order to deal with the threats posed by a large population in India, the study recommends family planning practices amongst other policy prescriptions.
R23|Forecasting the population of Brazil using the Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Brazil from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Brazil annual total population is non-stationary in all levels; for simplicity purposes, the study has assumed that the POP series is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (6, 2, 0) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is stable and that its residuals are stationary. The results of the study reveal that total population in Brazil will continue to rise in the next three decades and in 2050 Brazil’s total population will be approximately 256 million people. Four policy prescriptions have been suggested for consideration by the government of Brazil.
R23|What will be China's population in 2050? Evidence from the Box-Jenkins approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in China from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that China annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 1) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is indeed stable although its residuals are non-stationary. The results of the study reveal that total population in China will continue to rise in the next three decades and in 2050 China’s total population will be approximately 1.6 billion people. Three policy recommendations have been suggested for consideration by the Chinese government.
R23|Addressing the population question in Mexico: A Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Mexico from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Mexico annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 1) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further reveal that the presented model is stable and that its residuals are stationary. The results of the study show that total population in Mexico will continue to rise in the next three decades and in 2050 Mexico’s total population will be approximately 180 million people. Three policy prescriptions have been proposed for consideration by the government of Mexico.
R23|Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach to predicting total population in Russia|Employing annual time series data on total population in Russia from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Russia annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (1, 2, 1) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is quite stable and that its residuals are stationary as well. The results of the study reveal that total population in Russia will continue to rise, but slowly, in the next three decades and in 2050 Russia’s total population will be approximately 147 million people. Three policy prescriptions have been suggested for consideration by the government of the federation of Russia.
R23|Somalia population dynamics versus the Malthusian population trap: What does the ARIMA approach tell us?|Using annual time series data on total population in Somalia from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Somalia annual total population is basically I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (7, 2, 1) model as the most parsimonious model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented model is really stable and that its residuals are I (0). The results of the study reveal that total population in Somalia will continue to rise sharply in the next three decades and in 2050 Somalia’s total population will be approximately 28 million people. In order to circumvent the chances of being a victim of the Malthusian population trap, 4 policy recommendations have been put forward for consideration by the government of Somalia.
R23|Will the United States of America (USA) be a beneficiary of the Alburg (1998) and Becker et al (1999) prophecies? Recent insights from the Box-Jenkins ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in the USA from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA approach. Diagnostic tests show that USA annual total population data is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (0, 2, 3) model. The diagnostic tests indicate that the presented model is very stable and quite suitable. The results of the study reveal that total population in USA will continue to sharply rise in the next three decades. Considering a highly educated labor force, coupled with latest technological advancements, USA is likely to be one of the first beneficiaries of the Ahlburg (1998) and Becker et al (1999) prophecies. In order to stay in the realm of the aforementioned prophecies, USA should take note of the 3-fold policy recommendations put forward.
R23|Development-Induced Displacement: The Case of Dam Construction in Slovakia and the Czech Republic|The paper deals with the topic of development-induced displacement based on Slovak and Czech historical experience with dam construction projects. Favourable natural conditions in the Central European area, such as hydropower potential and relief, have enabled many hydroelectric plants to be constructed, whereby no negligible number of cases have been accompanied by resettlement of the affected population. Such processes had significant social and economic consequences. In the present study we predominantly focus on the ways of compensation and treatment of the displaced, whereby comparative approach is applied. Besides, results of key informant interviews are debated in detail. The paper is concluded by policy recommendations regarding potential future development-induced displacement.
R23|Internal migration and inclusive development: Insights from the field|Migration is a universal phenomenon. From time immemorial women and men have travelled in search of better living. There are two separate streams of migration. The first one is at the upper end of human capital hierarchy, to fill in existing surplus demand in the labour market of destination regions. Consequently, this process is highly selective in nature – in terms of skill & training, age, and gender. The second stream emerges due to ‘Push factors’ or distress conditions in the source regions (relative to the destination) – economic hardships in the form of low wages, high unemployment, heavy population pressure, etc. in the native places, and the lure of better earning opportunities in the economically vibrant destination region. This process is a coping mechanism of poor families and helps them come out of poverty. Thus migration can be both discriminatory and egalitarian. Another issue is the emerging pattern of identity and conflict between natives and migrants in several parts of the country. Social inclusion of migrants is sometimes at jeopardy and goes against the ethos and economics of one nation-one labour market principle. This issue needs to be examined also. Using field data, this paper seeks to understand the following issues:(a) Who migrates – what are the social, economic and institutional factors that determine migration decisions? (b) Are there any disparities between migrants/natives and various socio-religious groups regarding – Educational Attainment, Availability of employment, Nature of employment (casual/regular), Occupational distribution, and Earnings?; (c) What are the migration patterns of lagging socio-religious groups? Whether migration does form a route out of poverty for them, and whether specific policies for these groups exist or should be recommended; (d) Understand whether the process of migration is leading to better human capital standards for the subsequent generation or stifling it; and, (e) Examine the perception of natives in receiving regions about migrant workers and how migrants assimilate. The paper uses primary data from 3 districts of Bengal to explore the issues highlighted. It would also explore the impact on the migrants, the receiving regions and the sending regions through case studies to help us in understanding the issue of social inclusion of migrants. Several processes/local systems of migration have also been examined to highlight the vulnerability of the migrants. Inferences from the paper would help in devising a broadbased and inclusive migration policy.
R23|The Impact of Rental Housing on Neighborhood Racial and Social Integration|Neighborhood racial and class segregation continue to be major social problems within America’s metropolitan areas. Segregation has been linked to a whole host of racial and class inequalities, including access to jobs, schooling and single parenthood, and future earnings. One factor accounting for segregation is the inability of black and lower income households to afford housing in white neighborhoods, where housing units historically have been largely owner-occupied single-family homes. In recent years there has been a shift in the housing makeup of many of these neighborhoods, with rentals and foreclosures increasing in share. This has made housing more affordable in these neighborhoods. In this paper we investigate the impact that foreclosures and three types of rentals (single-family, condominium, and apartments) have on neighborhood racial and income integration using data from Miami-Dade County, Florida. We find that neighborhoods have become more racially and socially integrated as rentals have increased as a share of the housing stock.
R23|Racial Residential Segregation and Black Low Birth Weight, 1970-2010|The black-white gap in low birth weight in the United States remains large and mostly unexplained. A large literature links segregation to adverse black birth outcomes but, to the best of our knowledge, no studies explore how this relationship has changed over time. We explore the relationship between racial residential segregation on black and white birth weights for the period 1970-2010. We find a negative effect of segregation on black birth outcomes that only emerges after 1980. We explore the potential pathways through which segregation influenced black birth outcomes and how these mechanisms may have changed over time. Measures for maternal socioeconomic status and behaviors accounts for 35 to 40 percent of the full segregation effect between 1990 and 2010. Single-motherhood and mother's education, and unobservable factors that load onto these variables, play important and increasing roles. After controlling for MSA and parent characteristics, segregation explains 21-25 percent of the raw black-white gap in low birth weight between 1990 and 2010.
R23|What will be Botswana's population in 2050? Evidence from the Box-Jenkins approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Botswana from 1960 to 2017, I model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Botswana annual total population is neither I (1) nor I (2) but for simplicity purposes, the researcher has assumed it is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 1) model as the optimal model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is indeed stable. The results of the study reveal that total population in Botswana will continue to rise in the next three decades and in 2050 Botswana’s total population will be approximately 3 665 140 people. In order to benefit from an increase in total population in Botswana, 3 policy recommendations have been suggested.
R23|Can Afghanistan be a victim of the Malthusian population trap? what does the ARIMA approach tell us?|Using annual time series data on total population in Afghanistan from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Afghanistan annual total population is I (1). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (1, 1, 2) model as the best model. The diagnostic tests further show that the presented model is stable and that its residuals are I (0). The results of the study reveal that total population in Afghanistan will continue to rise gradually in the next three decades and in 2050 Afghanistan’s total population will be approximately 51 million people. In order to circumvent the chances of being a victim of the Malthusian population trap, 4 policy prescriptions have been suggested for consideration by the government of Afghanistan.
R23|Prediction of total population in Togo using ARIMA models|Using annual time series data on total population in Togo from 1960 to 2017, we model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Togo annual total population is neither I (1) nor I (2) but for simplicity purposes, the researcher has assumed it is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 0) model as the best model. The diagnostic tests further indicate that the presented model is stable. The results of the study reveal that total population in Togo will continue to rise in the next three decades and in 2050 Togo’s total population will be approximately 14.2 million people. In order to benefit from an increase in total population in Togo, 3 policy recommendations have been suggested for consider by the government of Togo.
R23|Population dynamics in Gambia: an ARIMA approach|Employing annual time series data on total population in Gambia from 1960 to 2017, I model and forecast total population over the next 3 decades using the Box – Jenkins ARIMA technique. Diagnostic tests such as the ADF tests show that Gambia annual total population is I (2). Based on the AIC, the study presents the ARIMA (3, 2, 1) model and our diagnostic tests also indicate that the presented model is stable. The results of the study reveal that total population in Gambia will continue to gradually rise in the next three decades. In order to take advantage of the expected increase in total population in Gambia, 4 policy recommendations have been proposed for consideration by the Gambian policy makers.
R23|Minimum Wages and Housing Rents: Theory and Evidence from Two Countries|Whether the minimum wage is an effective redistributive policy is still controversial. I investigate this issue from a new perspective by focusing on the effect of minimum wage hikes on housing rents. It is informative for two reasons. First, if minimum wage hikes increase housing rents, some of the benefits accidentally fall on homeowners rather than workers. Second, housing rents serve as an indicator as to whether and how much minimum wages are beneficial for workers, which I show by developing a spatial equilibrium model. I empirically analyze the causal impact of the minimum wage increase on housing rents in the United States and Japan. In both countries, minimum wages hikes increase housing rents in urban areas: 10% minimum wage increase induces 1%-2% increase in the United States and 2.5%-5% increase in Japan. While the unintended incidence on homeowners is arguably moderate, it is non-negligible. Moreover, it may be more salient if minimum wages induce unemployment. I also suggest the importance of heterogeneous welfare impacts on different groups of minimum wage workers.
R23|Global bifurcation mechanism and local stability of identical and equidistant regions|We provide an analytical description of possible spatial patterns in economic geography models with three identical and equidistant regions by applying results from General Bifurcation mechanisms. We then use Pflüger’s (2004, Reg Sci UrbEcon) model to show what spatial patterns can be uncovered analytically. As the freeness of trade increases, a uniform distribution undergoes a direct bifurcation that leads to a state with two identical large regions and one small region. Before this bifurcation, the model encounters a minimum point above which a curve of dual equilibria with two small identical regions and one small region emerges. From further bifurcations, the equilibrium with one large region encounters agglomeration in a single region, while the equilibrium with one small region encounters a state with two evenly populated regions and one empty region. A secondary bifurcation then leads to partial agglomeration with one small region and one large region. We show that an asymmetric equilibrium h populated regions cannot be connected with other types of equilibria. Therefore, an initially asymmetric state will remain so and preserve the ordering between region sizes.
R23|Reform of the Personal Income Tax in Spain: Effects on internal mobility of the unemployed|This paper examines whether, and to what extent, the internal mobility of the unemployed in Spain was affected by a reform of the personal income tax that introduced a mobility incentive targeted at this group. The reform introduced a distinct change in the incentives to move for work for unemployed workers living in certain regions of Spain. The reform’s effectiveness is assessed by means of a difference-in-differences econometric approach, combined with nationally representative administrative data. Results suggest that the reform led, at most, to relatively few new migration flows, and account for the existence of differential migration trends between the regions that adopted the reform and those that did not.
R23|Spatial Dependence, Social Networks, and Economic Structures in Regional Labor Migration|This study empirically analyzes the determinants of regional labor migration in Japan, where small towns are disappearing due to the shortage of labor. Using spatial models of origin-destination flows and considering network effects of labor and economic structures, we obtain results more consistent with the standard migration theory than previous studies. First, unlike previous studies, we find that migration decisions in Japan are based on economic motivations consistent with economic theories. Particularly, unemployment rates in origins and destinations and income in origins are found to be the determinants of labor migration. Second, we report that network effects, which help reduce migration costs, have encouraged relocation of labor. Third, considering spatial weights based on distance, goods flow, and economic structures, we show that neighbors can be most appropriately defined with economic structures; migration patterns are alike in regions with similar economic structures.
R23|Commuting between rural and urban areas: evidence from India|This paper is an attempt to extend the dialogue on the nature of commuting between rural and urban areas and its implications for labour market outcomes in rural and urban India. We show that over the period 2004–2005 to 2011–2012, the magnitude of commuting workers has not changed but the composition has changed with reduction in rural no fixed place workers and increase in urban-no fixed place workers. We further highlight that rural–urban commuting can be considered mobility for better opportunities on account of diversification of livelihood strategy and underemployment in rural areas.
R23|Brothers or Invaders? How Crisis-driven Migrants Shape Voting Behavior|What explains voters’ negative attitudes toward immigration? Self-interested voters care about their personal economic and social circumstances. Sociotropic voters display in-group bias and perceive migrants as threats to their customs and culture. We study the electoral effects of forced internal and international migration in Colombia to provide evidence on the relative importance of these two hypotheses. We exploit the fact that migrants disproportionally locate in places with earlier settlements of people from their place of origin. In line with the sociotropic hypothesis, we find that only international migration inflows increase political participation and shift votes from left- to right-wing ideologies. Also consistent with the sociotropic hypothesis, we show that these results are not accounted for by the observed changes caused by migration inflows on socioeconomic variables.
R23|The impact of place-based policies on perceived regional living conditions across German labor market regions. Examining the impacts on migration flows|The paper analyzes the impact of the two major German regional development and redistribution policies, the municipal fiscal equalization scheme and the economic funds GRW, on perceived regional living conditions, measured through interregional migration between German labor market regions. Using a spatial vector-autoregressive panel model (SpVar), we find evidence that equalization transfers have a significant positive impact on perceived living conditions and contribute to the aim of regional equity. These effects are especially found for regions with low endogenous fiscal capacities. GRW funding reveals no significant effects on net migration rates in total, but short-term effects in rural regions.
R23|The missing ingredient: Distance. Internal migration and its long-term economic impact in the United States|This paper examines if internal migrants at the turn of the 20th century have influenced the long-term economic development of the counties where they settled over 100 years ago. Using Census microdata from 1880 and 1910, the distance travelled by American-born migrants between birthplace and county of residence is examined to assess its relevance for the economic development of US counties today. The settlement patterns of domestic migrants across the 48 continental states are then linked to current county-level development. Factors influencing both migration at the time and the level of development of the county today are controlled for. The results of the analysis underline the economic importance of internal migration. Counties that attracted American-born migrants more than 100 years ago are significantly richer today. Moreover, distance is crucial for the impact of internal migration on long-term economic development; the larger the distance travelled by domestic migrants, the greater the long-term economic impact on the receiving territories.
R23|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: the limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|Urban economics and branches of mainstream economics – what we call the “housing as opportunity” school of thought – have been arguing that shortages of affordable housing in dense agglomerations represent a fundamental barrier for economic development. Housing shortages are considered to limit migration into thriving cities, curtailing their expansion potential, generating rising social and spatial inequalities, and inhibiting national growth. According to this dominant view within economics, relaxing zoning and other planning regulations in the most prosperous cities is crucial to unleash the economic potential of cities and nations and to facilitate within-country migration. In this article, we contend that the bulk of the claims of the housing as opportunity approach are fundamentally flawed and lead to simplistic and misguided policy recommendations. We posit that there is no clear and uncontroversial evidence that housing regulation is a principal source of differences in home availability or prices across cities. Blanket changes in zoning are unlikely to increase domestic migration or to increase affordability for lower-income households in prosperous regions. They would, however, increase gentrification within prosperous regions and would not appreciably decrease income inequality. In contrast to the housing models, we argue the basic motors of all these features of the economy are the current geography of employment, wages and skills.
R23|Why does birthplace matter so much?|We consider the link between birthplace and wages. Using a unique panel dataset, we estimate a raw elasticity of wages with respect to birthplace size of 4.2%, two thirds of the 6.8% raw elasticity with respect to city size. Part of this effect simply reflects intergenerational transmission and the spatial sorting of parents, part is explained by the role that birthplace size plays in determining current city size. Lifetime immobility explains a lot of the correlation between birthplace and current city size: we show that 43.7% of individuals only ever work while living in the place they were born. Our results highlight the importance of intergenerational and individual sorting in helping explain the persistence of spatial disparities.
R23|Some Causal Effects of an Industrial Policy|We exploit changes in the area-specific eligibility criteria for a program to support jobs through investment subsidies. European rules determine whether an area is eligible for subsidies, and we construct instrumental variables for area eligibility based on parameters of these rule changes. Areas eligible for higher subsidies significantly increased jobs and reduced unemployment. A ten-percentage point increase in the maximum investment subsidy stimulates a 10% increase in manufacturing employment. This effect exists solely for small firms: large companies accept subsidies without increasing activity. There are positive effects on investment and employment for incumbent firms but not Total Factor Productivity.
R23|Borrowing constraints and location choice - Evidence from the Paris Region| This paper investigates the determinants of residential segregation using a nested logit model to disentangle household preferences for local amenities, for dwelling type and for homeownership. The model is extended to account for unobservable borrowing constraints which might prevent some households from purchasing a dwelling. A counterfactual distribution of socio-demographic characteristics across the Paris region is then built by relaxing those constraints. The comparison of the actual and counterfactual distributions suggests that if their credit constraints were alleviated, households would tend to locate further from Paris. In particular if constraints were relaxed only on the poorest households, they would not be likely to mix with the richest households.
R23|Internal Migration in the United States: A Comprehensive Comparative Assessment of the Consumer Credit Panel|We introduce and provide the first comprehensive comparative assessment of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York/Equifax Consumer Credit Panel (CCP) as a valuable and underutilized data set for studying internal migration within the United States. Relative to other data sources on US internal migration, the CCP permits highly detailed cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses of migration, both temporally and geographically. We compare cross-sectional and longitudinal estimates of migration from the CCP to similar estimates derived from the American Community Survey, the Current Population Survey, Internal Revenue Service data, the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, and the Survey of Income and Program Participation. Our results establish the comparative utility and illustrate some of the unique advantages of the CCP relative to other data sources on US internal migration. We conclude by identifying some profitable directions for future research on US internal migration using the CCP, as well as reminding readers of the strengths and limitations of these data. More broadly, this paper contributes to discussions and debates on improving the availability, quality, and comparability of migration data.
R23|Landlords and Access to Opportunity|Despite being eligible for use in any neighborhood, housing choice vouchers tend to be redeemed in low-opportunity neighborhoods. This paper investigates how landlords contribute to this outcome and how they respond to efforts to change it. We leverage a policy change in Washington, DC, that increased voucher rental payments only in high-rent neighborhoods. Using two waves of a correspondence experiment that bracket the policy change, we show that most opportunity landlords screen out prospective voucher tenants, and we detect no change in average screening behavior after a $450 per month increase in voucher payments. In lease-up data, however, enough landlords do respond to increased payments to equalize the flow of voucher tenants into high- vs. low-rent neighborhoods. Using tax data and listings from a website specializing in subsidized housing, we characterize a group of marginal opportunity landlords who respond to higher payments. Marginal opportunity landlords are relatively rare, list their units near market rates, operate on a small scale, and negatively select into the voucher program based on hard-to-observe differences in unit quality.
R23|Parental Proximity and Earnings After Job Displacements|The earnings of young adults who live in the same neighborhoods as their parents completely recover after a job displacement, unlike the earnings of young adults who live farther away, which permanently decline. Nearby workers appear to benefit from help with childcare since grandmothers are less likely to be employed after their child's job displacement and since the earnings benefits are concentrated among young adults who have children. The result also suggests that parental employment networks improve earnings. Differences in job search durations, transfers of housing services, and geographic mobility, however, are too small to explain the result.
R23|The Return to Big City Experience: Evidence from Danish Refugees|We offer causal evidence of higher returns to experience in big cities. Exploiting a natural experiment that settled political refugees across labor markets in Denmark between 1986 and 1998, we find that while refugees initially earn similar wages across locations, those placed in Copenhagen exhibit 35% faster wage growth with each additional year of experience. This gap is driven primarily by differential sorting towards high-wage establishments, occupations, and industries. An estimated spatial model of earnings dynamics attributes an important role to unobserved worker ability: more able refugees transition to more productive establishments faster in Copenhagen than in other cities.
R23|Beautiful city: Leisure amenities and urban growth|Modern urban economic theory and policymakers are coming to see the provision of consumer‐leisure amenities as a way to attract population, especially the highly skilled and their employers. However, past studies have arguably only provided indirect evidence of the importance of leisure amenities for urban development. In this paper, we propose and validate the number of tourist trips and the number of crowdsourced picturesque locations as measures of consumer revealed preferences for local lifestyle amenities. Urban population growth in the 1990–2010 period was about 10% points (about one standard deviation) higher in a metro area that was perceived as twice more picturesque. This measure ties with low taxes as the most important predictor of urban population growth. “Beautiful cities” disproportionally attracted highly educated individuals and experienced faster housing price appreciation, especially in supply‐inelastic markets. In contrast to the generally declining trend of the American central city, neighborhoods that were close to central recreational districts have experienced economic growth, although at the cost of minority displacement.
R23|Freeway Revolts!|Freeway revolts were widespread protests across the U.S. following early urban Interstate construction in the mid-1950s. We present theory and evidence from panel data on neighborhoods and travel behavior to show that diminished quality of life from freeway disamenities inspired the revolts, aﬀected the allocation of freeways within cities, and changed city structure. First, actual freeway construction diverged from initial plans in the wake of the growing freeway revolts and subsequent policy responses, especially in central neighborhoods. Second, freeways caused slower growth in population, income, and land values in central areas, but faster growth in outlying areas. These patterns suggest that in central areas, freeway disamenity eﬀects exceeded small access beneﬁts. Third, in a quantitative general equilibrium spatial model, the aggregate beneﬁts from burying or capping freeways are large and concentrated downtown. This result suggests that targeted mitigation policies could improve welfare and helps explain why opposition to freeways is often observed in central neighborhoods. Disamenities from freeways, versus their commuting beneﬁts, likely played a signiﬁcant role in the decentralization of U.S. cities.
R23|The Effects of Gentrification on the Well-Being and Opportunity of Original Resident Adults and Children|We use new longitudinal census microdata to provide the first causal evidence of how gentrification affects a broad set of outcomes for original resident adults and children. Gentrification modestly increases out-migration, though movers are not made observably worse off and neighborhood change is driven primarily by changes to in-migration. At the same time, many original resident adults stay and benefit from declining poverty exposure and rising house values. Children benefit from increased exposure to higher-opportunity neighborhoods, and some are more likely to attend and complete college. Our results suggest that accommodative policies, such as increasing the supply of housing in high-demand urban areas, could increase the opportunity benefits we find, reduce out-migration pressure, and promote long-term affordability
R23|On Regional Borrowing, Default, and Migration|Migration plays a key role in city finances with every new entrant reducing debt per person and every exit increasing it. We study the interactions between regional borrowing, migration, and default from empirical, theoretical, and quantitative perspectives. Empirically, we document that in-migration rates are positively correlated with deficits, that many cities appear to be at or near state-imposed borrowing limits, and that defaults can occur after booms or busts in productivity and population. Theoretically, we show that migration creates an externality that results in over-borrowing, and our quantitative model is able to rationalize many features of the data because of it. Counterfactuals reveal (1) Detroit should have deleveraged in the financial crisis to avoid default; (2) a return to the high-interest rate environment prevailing in the 1990s has only small long-run effects on city finances; and (3) anticipated bailouts double default rates.
R23|The Persistent Employment E ffects of the 2006-09 U.S. Housing Wealth Collapse|We show that the housing wealth collapse of 2006-09 had a persistent impact on employment across US counties. In particular, localities that had a larger loss in housing net-worth during that period had more depressed employment as late as 2016, without a commensurate population response. Using IV's and controls to identify the causal impact of the wealth shock amplify those results, leading to an estimate that a 10 percent change in housing net-worth between 2006 and 2009 causes a 4.5 percent decline in local employment by 2016, as compared to a 2006 baseline. We do not find long-term causal impact of the shock on wages. Sectoral results indicate, however, that the results are unlikely to be purely a result of persistently low demand, since, contrary to the short-run effects, the effect over the longer horizon is less concentrated in the non-tradables sectors and is instead more prominent in the high-skilled services sector.
R23|Urbanization and Development: A Spatial Framework of Rural-to-urban Migration|This paper relies upon some of the assumptions of the classical Alonso-Muth-Mills model in order to construct a spatial framework of rural-to-urban migration; specifically, it develops a spatial framework of migration where rural workers are uniformly distributed throughout a rural area, which it develops around a monocentric nuclear urban area. The spatial interactions between the rural and the urban areas are modeled via the two spatial variables of the rural rents and productivity spillover, whose effects of propagation from the urban to the rural area depend on the distance of the rural area from the urban area. From the model, it emerges how the rural rents affect the final levels of congestion in both the two areas, so that the urbanization level of the market solution can be inferior or superior with respect to the urbanization level set by the city planner. On the other hand, the inclusion of spatial variables does not seem to produce scenarios for urban growth which significantly differ from the ones detected in previous studies. Ultimately, these findings suggest the need for a city planner to design policies affecting the level of rural rents in order to modify the desired level of rural-to-urban migration, and hence the desired trade-off between urban growth and congestion.
R23|The Evolution of Tradable and Non Tradable Employment: Evidence from France|The objective of this paper is to investigate the evolution of employment in the tradable and non-tradable sectors in France over 1999-2015. We find that tradable employment makes up the minority of French employment and has decreased over this period, dropping from 27.5% to 23.6% of total employment. There has been significant restructuring within the sector: tradable services jobs now make up the majority of tradable jobs and have grown sharply, while employment has declined in the rest of the tradable sector (manufacturing, agricultural and mining industries). We also identify a large wage and labor productivity gap between tradable and non-tradable sectors. Finally, we examine the distribution of tradable jobs across French local labor markets, and how their development affects non-tradable employment locally. Using the empirical approach developed by Moretti (2010), we find that for every 100 tradable jobs created in a French employment area between 2008 and 2016, 80 additional non-tradable jobs were created within the same area. JEL Classification: F16, F66, O52, R15, R23
R23|Neighbors' Income, Public Goods, and Well‐Being|How does neighbors' income affect individual well‐being? Our analysis is based on rich U.S. local data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, which contains information on where respondents live and their self‐reported well‐being. We find that the effect of neighbors' income on individuals' self‐reported well‐being varies with the size of the neighborhood included. In smaller areas such as ZIP codes, we find a positive relationship between median income and individuals' life satisfaction, whereas it is the opposite at the county, MSA, and state levels. We provide evidence that local public goods and local area characteristics such as unemployment, criminality, and poverty rates drive the association between satisfaction and neighbors' income at the ZIP code level. The neighbors' income effects are mainly concentrated among poorer individuals and are as large as one quarter of the effect of own income on self‐reported well‐being.
R23|Network Effects in Internal Migration|Previous studies have shown the impact of family, community, and ethnic networks on migration. Our research focuses on the role of social networks in Hungarian internal migration. We examine the factors determining out-migration rate from municipalities, and the factors influencing location choice by analysingmigration volumes on the municipality-municipality level. We measure social network effects by the migration rate of previous years, and by the intensity of user-user connections on the iWiW online social network (representing3.7million users) between two municipalities. The migration volumes and the characteristics of the municipalities are included in the analysis based on administrative data, and the distance between municipalities are indicated by the travel time. We analyselongitudinal data for the2000-2014 period, and cross-sectional models for the year 2014. Based on multilevel and fixed-effect regression models we show that both leaving and choosing municipalities is associated with network effects: the migration of previous years, and also the connections on iWiW social network influence the current migration rate, even after controlling for each other.
R23|Let’s Stick Together: Labor Market Effects from Immigrant Neighborhood Clustering|We investigate if there are positive economic effects for individuals residing in ethnic neighborhoods, in particular if the likelihood of labor market participation among foreign born is affected by residentially aggregating with other people from the same region. We also examine to what extent the income level among foreign born who has a job is affected by the extent to which they congregate in ethnic enclaves. We use Swedish micro-level data for the time period 2007 to 2015 and run a Heckman estimation for the population overall, for immigrants, but also for four distinct immigration groups: those from poor and middle-income countries in Africa or Asia, from Former Yugoslavia, and from the Middle East. We control for personal and neighborhood characteristics, as well as work place characteristics. The results suggest that there may be positive effects from ethnic concentration, but only if the group makes up a significant share of the population in that neighborhood.
R23|Mover Stayer Winner Loser - A study of income effects from rural migration|The accepted rural-urban migration theory suggests that economic gains are made by moving from a rural to an urban area. Its premise is: “If you stay, you lose.” However, are losses still the rule? And, if so, how big is the economic loss once other factors are controlled for? In this paper, we specifically focus on the income effects of migration decisions among young individuals from rural areas, using microdata for Sweden. We find that, contrary to accepted theory, staying in a rural region most often is insignificant in relation to an individual’s income level. When taking housing values into account, it can even be financially beneficial for some to stay in a rural area. Only for highly educated individuals is it consistently financially beneficial to move to an urban area, also after controlling for housing costs.
R23|Job Creation in Tight and Slack Labor Markets|Do investment programs create more jobs in tight or in slack labor markets? We study this question using data from a large, long-term photovoltaic investment scheme in Germany. Comparing counties with high and low unemployment both over time and across space, we find that photovoltaic installations created at least twice as many jobs in slack than in tight labor markets. Our results suggest that the differences in job-creation are not driven by changes in the composition or prices of investment, capital-labor substitution, or regional migration. This leaves crowding-out as the most plausible mechanism.
R23|Rural-Urban Migration, Structural Transformation, and Housing Markets in China|This paper explores the contribution of the structural transformation and urbanization process in the housing market in China. City migration flows combined with an inelastic land supply, due to entry restrictions, has raised house prices. This issue is examined using a multi-sector dynamic general-equilibrium model with migration and housing market. Our quantitative findings suggest that this process accounts for about 80 percent of urban housing prices. This mechanism remains valid in an extension calibrated to the two largest cities where housing booms have been particularly noticeable. Overall, supply factors and productivity account for most of the housing price growth.
R23|The Persistent Employment Effects of the 2006-09 U.S. Housing Wealth Collapse|We show that the housing wealth collapse of 2006-09 had a persistent impact on employment across counties in the U.S. In particular, localities that had a larger loss in housing net worth during that period had more depressed employment as late as 2016, without a commensurate population response. The use of IV's and controls to identify the causal impact of the wealth shock amplifies those results, leading to an estimate that a 10 percent change in housing net worth between 2006 and 2009 causes a 4.5 percent decline in local employment by 2016, as compared with a 2006 baseline. We do not find a long-term causal impact of the shock on wages. Sectoral results indicate, however, that the results are unlikely to be purely a result of persistently low demand, since, contrary to the short-run effects, the effect over the longer horizon is less concentrated in the non-tradables sectors and is instead more prominent in the high-skilled services sector.
R23|How Local Economic Conditions Affect School Finances, Teacher Quality, and Student Achievement: Evidence from the Texas Shale Boom|Whether improved local economic conditions lead to better student outcomes is theoretically ambiguous and will depend on how schools use additional revenues and how students and teachers respond to rising private sector wages. The Texas boom in shale oil and gas drilling, with its large and localized effects on wages and the tax base, provides a unique opportunity to address this question that spans the areas of education, labor markets, and public finance. An empirical approach using variation in shale geology across school districts shows that the boom reduced test scores and student attendance, despite tripling the local tax base and creating a revenue windfall. Schools spent additional revenue on capital projects and debt service, but not on teachers. As the gap between teacher wages and private sector wages grew, so did teacher turnover and the percentage of inexperienced teachers, which helps explain the decline in student achievement. Changes in student composition did not account for the achievement decline but instead helped to moderate it. The findings illustrate the potential value of using revenue growth to retain teachers in times of rising private sector wages.
R23|Hofnachfolgesituation in Österreich 2018 - Deskriptive Ergebnisse einer Befragung von Betriebsleiter/innen|In Kooperation mit der Sozialversicherungsanstalt der Bauern wurde im Jahr 2018 am Institut für nachhaltige Wirtschaftsentwicklung der Universität für Bodenkultur Wien eine österreichweite postalische Befragung zum Thema Hofnachfolge in bäuerlichen Familienbetrieben durchgeführt. Es ging darum die Hofnachfolgesituation in den Betrieben zu erheben und die Ruhestandspläne der BetriebsleiterInnen sowie die Integration der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen in betriebliche Arbeits- und Entscheidungsprozesse zu erforschen. Ein standardisierter Fragebogen wurde an 2000 BetriebsleiterInnen im Mindestalter von 45 Jahren ausgesandt, 572 wurden retourniert und für dieses Diskussionspapier ausgewertet. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass rund 70% der befragten BetriebsleiterInnen bereits eine/n Nachfolger/in festgelegt oder zumindest in Aussicht haben. In Familien mit Kindern sind diese potentiellen Nachfolger/innen vorwiegend eigene Kinder – fast viermal häufiger Söhne als Töchter. In Familien ohne Kinder soll die Nachfolge mehrheitlich ebenfalls eine Person aus dem Verwandtenkreis antreten. Zwei Drittel der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen verfügen über eine abgeschlossene landwirtschaftliche Ausbildung. Zum Zeitpunkt der Befragung befand sich ein Viertel der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen in Ausbildung, in Elternkarenz, beim Heeres- und Zivildienst, auf Auslandspraktikum oder war arbeitssuchend. Drei Viertel waren erwerbstätig, rund 45% arbeiteten haupt- oder nebenberuflich am Betrieb, den sie einmal übernehmen sollen. Was betriebliche Managementaufgaben betrifft, werden Entscheidungen umso häufiger von BetriebsleiterIn und Nachfolger/innen gemeinsam getroffen je langfristiger deren Auswirkungen sind. Bezüglich ihrer Ruhestandspläne geben rund 95% der befragten BetriebsleiterInnen an, am Betrieb wohnen zu bleiben, 86% möchten auch weiterhin mitarbeiten und zwar vorwiegend als Hilfe bei Arbeitsspitzen. Ihre Ruhestandpläne mit jemandem diskutiert haben aber erst rund 69% der Befragten und sogar nur rund 19% haben Informationsangebote im Zusammenhang mit der Hofnachfolge in Anspruch genommen.
R23|Household location in English cities|This paper is the first to test an amenity-based sorting model for cities in England. We explore household location under both monocentric and polycentric assumptions about city structure. On average, we find no systematic relationship between income and household distance to the city centre. However, there are differences between cities, with a positive income-distance relationship in Birmingham and Leeds, and a negative relationship in Newcastle. Household heterogeneity is also important; for example, on average households with heads who are migrants live 25% closer to the centre than non-migrants. We also find that only the employed (and those above the poverty line) are influenced by the availability of public transport, which is in direct opposition to the US evidence.
R23|Linking neighbors’ fertility. Third births in Norwegian neighborhoods|The aim of this paper is to gain more insight on the drivers behind geographical variations in family sizes by pointing out the role of neighborhoods and neighbors for two-child couples’ transitions to third births. Couples’ decisions about fertility behavior are influenced by their social context where immediate neighborhoods and neighbors may play a significant role. Furthermore, as neighborhoods are important contexts of childrearing, couples may sort geographically based on their fertility preferences. Using detailed geo-data from Norwegian administrative registers to locate couples in flexible ego-centered neighborhoods, this paper introduces a new dimension of spatial fertility variations. Results from regression models show that the family size of neighbors is positively related to each other. That is, the likelihood that two-child couples have a third child increases with the share of families with three or more children in the neighborhood. This relationship remains significant also after controlling for a range of couple characteristics, housing, neighboring women’s educational level and time-constant characteristics of neighborhoods. It is also consistent for various neighborhood definitions which in this study range from the 12 to the 500 nearest neighbors. However, the strength of the association between neighbors’ fertility increases with the number of neighbors, providing evidence that residential sorting is a dominant driver.
R23|The paradox of the unhappy, growing city: reconciling evidence|This paper attempts to explain why large cities tend to score low on indices of happiness/life satisfaction, while at the same time experiencing population growth. Using Norwegian survey and register data, we show that different population segments are behind these seemingly contradictory attributes of large cities. A minority of highly mobile citizens are satisfied with life in Norway’s biggest city, Oslo, and exhibits positive net in-migration to the city. A majority of less mobile groups are dissatisfied and tend to move out of Oslo, but these flows are too small to determine the overall migration pattern. Our results indicate that the Rosen-Roback framework for analysis of regional quality of life, which builds on the assumption of perfect mobility, is appropriate only for the most mobile segments of the population.
R23|For whom are cities good places to live?|We use survey data to examine whether there are some sociodemographic groups that particularly value the amenities that cities provide. We find that young, single and childless persons and young men with tertiary education are relatively more satisfied with urban areas as place of residence. Being single is more important for women's appraisal of places, while having children matters more for men’s preferences. There is a high degree of agreement between sociodemographic groups on whether a particular amenity represents an urban amenity or an urban disamenity. Higher education, public transportation, culture, leisure activities and shopping opportunities are urban amenities, whereas other public services, safety, living conditions for children and outdoor recreation are urban disamenities.
R23|Who is an internal migrant?|There is no internationally accepted definition of an internal migrant. Different surveys and academic papers use varied definitions that are open to subjectivity. Our paper stresses this issue and tests the sensitivity of results obtained by econometric analysis to the use of different defining criterion. Using four definitions of an internal migrant based on aspects of varied time intervals, purpose of migration and geographical shifts, we examine the determinants of the migration decision and the impact of migration on the householdâ€™s income. We employ Probit modelling and difference-in-difference Probability Score Matching to estimate the two questions, respectively. We find that a change in definition alters the target sample and therefore induces identification errors. In case of determinants, the magnitude and significance of variables capturing human and social capital, socio-demography and wealth of the household change across the four definitions. Additionally, having a migrant, increases the householdâ€™s income under two definitions, while negatively impacting the householdâ€™s income under the other two definitions. Therefore, it is pertinent to standardize the definition of an internal migrant before assessing the impact of migration. Our paper aims to bring this issue to the attention of international organizations and future researchers who work in the area of migration. It advocates for a standardized definition by proposing basic guidelines.
R23|Educational and occupational aspirations at the end of secondary school: The importance of regional labour-market conditions|The transition from general schooling to vocational training or to the labour market marks a crucial threshold in the life course of young adults. It has been well documented that successful school-to-work transitions are influenced by (regional) labour-market conditions. However, what has been rather neglected is that before actual transitions take place, adolescents need to make plans and evaluate their wishes and choices against the background of existing constraints. (Regional) labour-market conditions are a part of such constraints. This paper complements previous research by focusing on the impact of the regional labour market on students’ educational and occupational aspirations before school-to-work transitions take place. Regionalised administrative data on unemployment is linked with survey data from the Starting Cohort 4 of the German National Educational Panel Study (NEPS-SC4). Results indicate that a relatively higher level of regional unemployment is associated with aspirations for higher-status occupations. Their status aspiration push students towards continuing general school to obtain higher general qualifications. The effects vary with the attended secondary school track and with parents’ educational aspirations for their children.
R23|Educational and occupational aspirations at the end of secondary school: The importance of regional labour-market conditions|The transition from general schooling to vocational training or to the labour market marks a crucial threshold in the life course of young adults. It has been well documented that successful school-to-work transitions are influenced by (regional) labour-market conditions. However, what has been rather neglected is that before actual transitions take place, adolescents need to make plans and evaluate their wishes and choices against the background of existing constraints. (Regional) labour-market conditions are a part of such constraints. This paper complements previous research by focusing on the impact of the regional labour market on students’ educational and occupational aspirations before school-to-work transitions take place. Regionalised administrative data on unemployment is linked with survey data from the Starting Cohort 4 of the German National Educational Panel Study (NEPS-SC4). Results indicate that a relatively higher level of regional unemployment is associated with aspirations for higher-status occupations. Their status aspiration push students towards continuing general school to obtain higher general qualifications. The effects vary with the attended secondary school track and with parents’ educational aspirations for their children.
R23|Linking University Harshness and Students’ Choices: Sociodemographic Differences based on Italian Universities’ Characteristics|Through the decades, the Higher Education System globally experimented a huge increase in the average marks that each student receives. Among several hypothesis, in this article the idea that grading is one of the tool that every department can use in order to attract a larger amount of students will be stressed. Regarding the Italian case, the speed in obtaining a degree is among the criteria considered by the Ministry of Education in order to evaluate universities, financing them proportionally. As a shortcoming, this can boost an artificial increase in marks. So, the number of students becomes important for those universities with the worst ranking positions, in order to finance themselves through fees. On the other side, it is reasonable to expect that a student emigrates toward places which offer higher chances of receiving a job. In other words, mobility might be driven by the search for better working conditions, and not by the ’ease’ of the faculty. Testing this hypothesis, a Multinomial Conditional Logit Model will be implemented in order to measure the probability of choosing a certain destination depending on the harshness and reputation of a University and on the rates of unemployment at a regional level.
R23|European Social Fund’s lifelong learning and regional development: a case study|The aim of this paper is to evaluate the first impacts of the European Social Fund (hereafter ESF) lifelong learning interventions on the regional development. As is well known, lifelong learning is defined as the all purposeful learning activity, undertaken throughout life, on an ongoing basis, with the aim of improving knowledge, skills, and competence within a personal, civic, social and/or employment-related perspective (CEC, 2000). Beyond the benefits, lifelong learning represents an advantage for the regional economy that could be measured in terms of both estimation of direct impact on domestic demand and evaluation of impacts on the performance of the local economies. The combination of these two kinds of effects generates a positive impact on a wider scale: a higher and skilled workforce attracts more investment, contributing to improve the well-being of a local economy. The case study is the Veneto region. The applied methodologies used in the case study are both a survey and an econometric model. In the first case, the utilized method approaches the topic from a microeconomic perspective, while in the second case the approach is purely macroeconomic.
R23|Economic and Cultural Residential Sorting of Auckland’s Population 1991-2013: An Entropy Approach|Auckland, the largest city of New Zealand, is one of the most diverse cities in the world, with more than 40 percent of its population born abroad, more than 200 ethnicities represented and 160 languages spoken. In this paper, we measure residential sorting of individuals in Auckland by their cultural (ethnicity) and economic (age, income, education, occupation) characteristics for the years 1991-2013. We use entropy-based measures of residential sorting as our preferred measure, and find that individuals exhibit the greatest residential sorting by ethnicity, compared with sorting by economic characteristics. We also observe that ethnic sorting declined between 1991 and 2013, for broad ethnic groups, but that sorting within the broad ethnic groups has increased. At the broad occupational groups level, sorting has also declined between 1991 and 2013, but the contribution to sorting of within-broad-group occupations has increased. We also observe that the semi-rural fringes of the city are less diverse than the central urban area.
R23|The Effects of Immigration on Local Housing Markets|This paper provides a survey of the international evidence regarding the impact of immigration on local housing markets. A theoretical framework highlights the complexity of the housing market and the importance of distinguishing between the ownership and use of the stock of dwellings vis-à-vis the residential real estate market. Evidence from eight countries (Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States) and from meta-analysis shows that immigration will lead to higher house prices and rents, and lower housing affordability. On average, a one percent increase in immigration in a city may be expected to raise rents by one-half to one percent and the effect on prices is about double that. However, there is a large variance around this average which is related inter alia to the time frame and spatial scale of the analysis, as well as to local economic conditions. Additionally, the housing impact of immigration will depend on the demographic and economic composition of the immigrant flow, on macroeconomic conditions and expectations, on the institutional factors that influence the price elasticity of the supply of new dwellings, and on how the native born react to immigration. The tendency of the native born to move out of city wards where migrants settle can lead to relative house price declines in these areas. Overall, immigration has been only a minor contributor to the sharply rising house prices in many fast-growing agglomerations in recent decades.
R23|Migration and Urbanisation in Post-Apartheid South Africa|Under apartheid, black South Africans were severely restricted in their choice of location and many were forced to live in homelands. Following the abolition of apartheid they were free to migrate. Given gravity, a town nearer to the homelands can be expected to receive a larger inflow of people than a more distant town following the removal of mobility restrictions. Exploting this exogenous variation, we study the effect of migration on urbanisation and the distribution of population. In particular, we test if migration inflows led to displacement, path dependence, or agglomeration in destination areas. We find evidence for path dependence in the aggregate, but substantial heterogeneity across town densities. An exogenous population shock leads to an increase of the urban relative to the rural population, which suggests that exogenous migration shocks can foster urbanisation in the medium run.
R23|Fiscal Transfers in the Spatial Economy|Many countries operate pronounced fiscal equalization schemes that shift tax revenue across jurisdictions. We use a general equilibrium model with multiple asymmetric regions, costly trade and labor mobility to carve out the aggregate implications of this policy. Calibrating the model for Germany, we find that it indeed delivers smaller spatial economic disparities across regions. This comes at the cost of lower national output, however, because activity is diverted away from core cities and towards remote areas with low productivity. But despite this output loss, fiscal transfers may still raise national welfare, because they effectively countervail over-congestion in large cities.
R23|The role of job satisfaction and local labor market conditions for the dissolution of worker-job matches|This paper scrutinizes the effect of job satisfaction on labor turnover. We use German SOEP data to estimate a multinomial logit model with random effects for the probability of a worker-job separation. In line with the previous literature, we find a negative relationship between job satisfaction and separations. We show that this relationship is entirely driven by less satisfied individuals, as the separation probability of more satisfied workers does not vary with job satisfaction. We also find that even among the most dissatisfied individuals, most workers remain in their current jobs. Finally, we show that the effect of job satisfaction varies with both local labor market conditions and the kind of separation under consideration (job-to-job or job-to-non-employment).
R23|Beyond the average: Ethnic capital heterogeneity and intergenerational transmission of education|Estimating the effect of ethnic capital on human capital investment decisions is complicated by the endogeneity of immigrants’ location choice, unobserved local correlates and the reflection problem. We exploit the institutional setting of a rare immigrant settlement policy in Germany, that generates quasi-random assignment across regions, and identify the causal impact of heterogeneous ethnic capital on educational outcomes of children. Correcting for endogenous location choice and correlated unobservables, we find that children of low-educated parents benefit significantly from the presence of high-educated parental peers of the same ethnicity. High educated parental peers from other ethnicities do not influence children’s learning achievements. Our estimates are unlikely to be confounded by the reflection problem since we study the effects of parental peers’ human capital which is pre-determined with respect to children’s outcomes. Our findings further suggest an increase in parental aspirations as a possible mechanism driving the heterogeneous ethnic capital effects, implying that profiling peers or ethnic role models could be important for migrant integration policies.
R23|Parental Migration, Investment in Children, and Children's Non-cognitive Development: Evidence from Rural China|Many children worldwide are left behind by parents who are migrating for work. While previous literature has studied the effect of parental migration on children's educational outcomes and cognitive achievements, this study focuses on how parental migration affects children's non-cognitive development. We use longitudinal data of children in rural China and adopt labor market conditions in destination provinces as instrumental variables for parental endogenous migration choice. We find that parental migration has a significant negative effect on children's non-cognitive development. Differentiating inter- and intra-provincial migrations suggests that the negative effect of parental migration is mainly driven by inter-provincial migrations. We test four different mechanisms of how parental migration affects child development including parental financial inputs, parental time inputs, household bargaining, and children's own time input. Our results provide insights into the relative importance of different mechanisms in determining the effect of parental migration on children's non-cognitive skill formation.
R23|The quasi-market of employment services in Italy|This paper aims to study the shortcomings and merits of the first experiment of quasi-market in the provision of employment services: the Lombardy DUL (Dote Unica Lavoro). This system, which has inspired the 2015 national reform within the Jobs Act, has reactivated and revitalized the sector by providing important job opportunities to jobless workers. The system has the typical problems of quasi-markets in the provision of public services (lion's share of private organizations; cherry picking; gaming). However, different expedients are devised in the program to minimize these shortcomings. The empirical analysis suggest that such phenomena if existent are at a physiological level. Analysis of the determinants of completing successfully the program provides non-trivial results as to, among others, the role organizations of different ownership type and of services provided.
R23|Von Abwanderung betroffende Arbeitsmärkte stärken|Junge und gut ausgebildete Menschen sind besonders mobil. Seit 2004 ziehen sie zunehmend in die Städte und gründen ihre Familien dort. In der Folge steigt auf dem Land das Durchschnittsalter und es fehlt dort zunehmend an hochqualifizierten Arbeitskräften und Schulabgängern. Abwanderungsregionen gibt es in jedem Flächenland. In Ostdeutschland ist diese Entwicklung am weitesten fortgeschritten. Abwanderungsregionen sollten ihre Gestaltungsfreiräume dafür nutzen, junge Menschen zu halten sowie Unternehmen und Arbeitskräfte von außerhalb anzuwerben. Netzwerken aus regionalen Akteuren kommt hierbei eine Schlüsselrolle zu. Jungen Menschen sollten die beruflichen Perspektiven in ihrer Heimatregion frühzeitig aufgezeigt werden, um ihren Fortzug zu verhindern. Dazu ist die praxisnahe Berufsorientierung zu intensivieren. Die Verfügbarkeit und Erreichbarkeit von Berufsschulen sollte durch überregionale Kooperationen, Mobilitätshilfen und E-Learning verbessert werden. Erfolglose Ausbildungsbewerber und Arbeitsuchende sollten stärker in ihrer Mobilität und Qualifizierung unterstützt werden. Unternehmen können sich durch Employer Branding als attraktive Arbeitgeber aufstellen und das lokale Arbeitsangebot für ihre Berufe begeistern. Regionale Branchencluster können Wirtschaftsstandorte deutlich attraktiver machen. Start-up-Förderung und die Ansiedlung von Forschungseinrichtungen können dies begünstigen. Der Breitbandausbau ist eine zentrale Voraussetzung zur Anwerbung und Bindung von Unternehmen und Arbeitskräften. Digitalisierung und Automatisierung können genutzt werden, um die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit zu steigern und den Mangel an Arbeitskräften zu kompensieren. Wenn geeignete Maßnahmen innerhalb der betroffenen Regionen nicht in der Fläche umzusetzen sind, sollten sie auf zentrale Orte konzentriert werden.
R23|Entwicklung regionaler Disparitäten hinsichtlich Wirtschaftskraft, sozialer Lage sowie Daseinsvorsorge und Infrastruktur in Deutschland und seinen ländlichen Räumen| In this study, we investigate the development of regional disparities with regard to economic, social, and infrastructural indicators for Germany. We analyse a total of 13 indicators on the scale of county regions and review particularly the period from 2000 until the most recent year for which data are available. As a result, we neither observe that regions in Germany are generally diverging nor that rural areas are lagging behind the socio-economic development of the whole society. Eleven out of 13 indicators show rather stable or decreasing disparities and we observe increasing disparities in terms of two indicators. Territorial inequalities between rural and nonrural areas do almost not exist over the whole period under study, remained virtually stable or developed in favour of ruralregions with regard to again eleven of the 13 indicators. However, the decreasing disparities could result at least partly from an effect called ‘passive regeneration’. This means that the convergence is not driven by real improvements, but only by a decline of the relation group in the denominator, for instance in the course of outmigration which many rural regions were affected by. At the end of the observation period, rural areas in total outperform non-rural areas concerning three indicators, they lack behind in respect of four indicators, and there is no significant difference (anymore) between both spatial types regarding six indicators. Altogether, the 13 indicators build no consistent pattern in space. Whether existing disparities and their developments from the year 2000 on call for political action, remains first and foremost a normative and no scientific question. Therefore, democratically legitimated decision makers have to answer this question. Our study results may contribute to this discussion by improving the basis for decision-making for the people in power.
R23|Endogenous segregation dynamics and housing market interactions: An ABM approach|In contrast to previous research, I hypothesize that residential segregation patterns do not only result from an individual's perception of different ethnicities, but is rather affected by housing market interactions and socioeconomic endowment, like income and education. I implement a theoretical agent-based model, which contains three main features: agents' socioeconomic endowment, the quantification of one's Willingness-to-Stay within a neighborhood and housing market interactions if an agent decides to move. The results indicate that housing market interactions, the valuation of socioeconomic factors, but also the increasing share of minority groups diminish the absolute level of racial segregation. The analysis shows that house price clusters dominate urban areas, since individuals have an incentive to stay in more expensive neighborhoods in which they made a bargain. An increase in house price segregation can be observed if individuals strongly undervalue their own house and if individuals have higher access to credit. I can show that these market interactions lead to lock-in effects for low-income individuals, since they lack the necessary budget and suffer under negative equity. Thus, residential segregation shows a strong dependency on housing market interactions and is more complex than presumed by Schelling's Spatial Model or the White Flight Hypothesis.
R23|Refugees Welcome? Understanding the Regional Heterogeneity of Anti-Foreigner Hate Crimes in Germany|In this article, we examine anti-foreigner hate crime in the wake of the large influx of asylum seekers to Germany in 2014 and 2015. By exploiting the quasi-experimental assignment of asylum seekers to German regions, we estimate the causal effect of an unexpected and sudden change in the share of the foreign-born population on anti-foreigner hate crime. Our county-level analysis shows that not simply the size of regional asylum seeker inflows drives the increase in hate crime, but the rapid compositional change of the residential population: Areas with previously low shares of foreign-born inhabitants that face large-scale immigration of asylum seekers witness the strongest upsurge in hate crime. Economically deprived regions and regions with a legacy of anti-foreigner hate crimes are also found to be prone to hate crime against refugees. However, when we explicitly control for East-West German differences, the predominance of native-born residents at the local level stands out as the single most important factor explaining the sudden increase in hate crime.
R23|Housing and Labor Market Vacancies and Beveridge Curves: Theoretical Framework and Illustrative Statistics|"The paper presents a model of housing and labor markets in the DMP tradition. The model treats decisions about housing and labor supply as joint decisions of individuals, articulates how the renting and owner segments of housing markets adjust through turnover ows and highlights the transitions across different discrete states in those markets, that is owner-to- owner, owner-to-renter, renter-to-owner, and renter-to-renter by unemployed or employed workers. It allows for vacancy rates in the rental and owner segments of the housing market, and introduces a novel concept of ""unemployment"" in housing markets thus allowing for the definition of Beveridge curves for housing markets. The paper documents the empirical significance of these concepts by means of data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics for 1969-2015."
R23|Marriage, Work and Migration: The Role of Infrastructure Development and Gender Norms|Traditional gender norms can restrict independent migration by women, thus preventing them from taking advantage of economic opportunities in urban non-agricultural industries. However, women may be able to circumvent such restrictions by using marriage to engage in long-distance migration - if they are wealthy enough to match with the desirable migrating grooms. Guided by a model in which women make marriage and migration decisions jointly, we hypothesize that marriage and labour markets will be inextricably linked by the possibility of marital migration. To test our hypotheses, we use the event of the construction of a major bridge in Bangladesh - which dramatically reduced travel time between the economically deprived north-western region and the industrial belt located around the capital city Dhaka - as a source of plausibly exogenous variation in migration costs. In accordance with our model's predictions, we find that the bridge construction induced marriage-related migration (not economic migration) among rural women, but only for those women coming from families above a poverty threshold.
R23|Following in their footsteps: an analysis of the impact of successive migration on rural household welfare in Ghana|Abstract We explore patterns of successive migration within rural households in Ghana and the impact that these successive migrants have on household welfare outcomes. Specifically, we use a household panel survey collected in 2013 and 2015. We exploit the panel nature of the data and a weighting method to overcome sources of bias. Welfare is measured with an index of housing quality. We find that successive migrants face lower migration costs, and few of them remit. We find no effect of sending a new migrant on the housing quality index. We conclude that the different nature of migration of successive migrants implies neither an economic gain for the household nor a loss. The reason is that the successive migration becomes less costly for migrants from households with prior migration experience, but at the same time, these migrants remit less or not at all compared to earlier waves of migrants.
R23|Immigration And The Displacement of Incumbent Households|We make use of the universe of immigrants who arrived in Switzerland between 1992 and 2013, granular community level house price and wage data as well as detailed information on the Swiss population to study the effects of immigration on the location choice of incumbent households. Immigration influences a household’s location choice through three distinct channels: house price changes, labor market competition, and households’ sentiment regarding immigration. We find evidence of all three channels. However, we show that the channel to which a household responds most strongly depends on the type of immigration and the characteristics of the household. Our research provides valuable insights into some of the effects of large scale immigration.
R23|The estimation and interpretation of coefficients in panel gravity models of migration|Abstract In this paper, we demonstrate that the conventional ordinary least squares and fixed effects estimators of classical gravity models of migration are biased, and that the interpretation of coefficients in the fixed effects gravity model is typically incorrect. We then present a best linear unbiased (BLU) estimator for gravity models of migration, and illustrate its application with inter-regional data from New Zealand. The results demonstrate that the standard ordinary least squares and fixed effect models lead to biased coefficients on population. Alternative estimates that are BLU are provided for a data generating process with fixed origin and destination effects. The coefficients on population must be interpreted in this model as growth rate effects rather than level effects. Our findings also have significance for other types of spatial interaction modelling.
R23|Access to employment and property values in Mexico|Location is one of the main characteristics households consider when buying a property or deciding where to live, since it determines accessibility to transport and hence to jobs and employment. Using a geographically-referenced dataset on new housing developments, this paper estimates how households value accessibility in Mexico City. Results are shown considering road accessibility to formal employment subcenters (private accessibility) and distance to the main public transport stations in the city (public accessibility). Results suggest that accessibility to employment subcenters is valued as an amenity by households but being closer to a Metro station is perceived as a disamenity. Moreover, households located in neighborhoods with a greater proportion of informal workers and with lower education levels give a lower value to private accessibility than households located in neighborhoods with a lower proportion of informal workers or in high-educated neighborhoods. These results are evidence of the existence of spatial segregation in the city where disadvantaged households are segregated, not only because of their economic conditions, but because they are located farther away from employment opportunities. The results in this work stress the importance of thinking about integrated land use and transport policies.
R23|BRATISLAVA and VIENNA: Twin Cities with big Development Potentials|The German version can be found here. The economies of Vienna and Bratislava have followed quite different development paths over the last decades. While Vienna’s population increased by about 20% within two decades, Bratislava’s population mostly stagnated. However, when measured in GDP per capita at purchasing power parties, average income in Bratislava has surpassed that of Vienna and is now among the top-10 leading regions in Europe. Massive foreign direct investment, particularly in the automotive sector, has created full employment in Bratislava. Nevertheless, Vienna, as one of the world’s most liveable cities, is still attracting more immigration and labour markets are in less favourable conditions. Transport infrastructure between the two close cities has only recently been improving, which has left considerable scope for further reductions in travel time. Regional cooperation is under way and should be reinforced in order to meet the challenges ahead. Mass-emigration of young Slovaks over the last decades will lead to a rapid ageing in Slovakia over the next decades and the working age population is expected to shrink by almost a third by the end of the century, while Austria’s will mostly stagnate. By creating a truly common labour market in the twin-city region, Bratislava could solve the problem of labour shortages and Vienna could solve its youth unemployment problem. Policy recommendations in this respect include inter alia a more substantial improvement of intercity public transport; common educational planning and training programmes; and, commuter allowances during the nominal wage-equalisation-transition. Other major long-run challenges are the ongoing processes of digitalisation and robotisation. Here, policy recommendations include projects of innovation cooperation; coordination of innovation oriented public procurement; and, improvement of transport infrastructure to connect the twin-city region with the rest of the world in order to reap potential future gains from increased economies of scale.
R23|BRATISLAVA und Wien: Twin Cities mit großem Entwicklungspotenzial|The English version can be found here. Die Wirtschaften von Wien und Bratislava haben sich in den letzten Jahrzehnten sehr unterschiedlich entwickelt. Die Bevölkerung Wiens ist um etwa 20% angestiegen, jene von Bratislava hat dagegen stagniert. Nimmt man allerdings das BIP pro Kopf zu Kaufkraftparitäten als Maß, so hat das Durchschnittseinkommen in Bratislava jenes in Wien bereits überholt und liegt nun unter den Top-10 führenden Regionen in Europa. Massive Investitionen, besonders im Automobilsektor, haben dazu beigetragen, dass in Bratislava Vollbeschäftigung herrscht. Wien, eine der lebenswertesten Städte der Welt, zieht immer noch Zuwanderung an; die Arbeitsmarktsituation ist weniger günstig. Die Transportinfrastruktur zwischen den beiden Städten hat sich nur in jüngster Zeit verbessert. Es gibt jedoch durchaus noch Potential zu einer erheblichen Reduktion der Reisezeit. Eine Zusammenarbeit auf regionaler Ebene besteht schon seit geraumer Zeit. Diese sollte aber verbessert werden, um gemeinsam künftige Herausforderungen zu bewältigen. Die bisherige Emigration, vorwiegend junger Personen, aus der Slowakei wird dort in den nächsten Jahrzehnten zu einer starken Überalterung führen; die Bevölkerung im arbeitsfähigen Alter wird bis zum Ende des Jahrhunderts voraussichtlich um beinahe ein Drittel zurückgehen; jene in Österreich wird voraussichtlich stagnieren. Ein echter gemeinsamer Arbeitsmarkt der beiden Städte könnte daher für beide vorteilhaft sein, die Arbeitskräfteknappheit in Bratislava senken und das Problem der Jugendarbeitslosigkeit in Wien reduzieren. Wirtschaftspolitische Empfehlungen gehen daher in die Richtung einer deutlichen Verbesserung des öffentlichen Transports; Entwicklung einer gemeinsamen Planung von Ausbildung und Pendlerunterstützung, um zu einem Lohnausgleich beizutragen. Der Prozess der Digitalisierung und Robotisierung stellt eine zweite große Herausforderung dar. Politikempfehlungen dazu umfassen Kooperationsprojekte im Bereich Innovation; die Koordination einer innovationsorientierten öffentlichen Beschaffung und die Verbesserung der Transportinfrastruktur, die die Region mit dem Rest der Welt verbindet, um so für die Zukunft von günstigeren Skaleneffekten zu profitieren.
R23|Why an EU Referendum? Why in 2016?|The outcome of the UK’s Brexit Referendum has been blamed on political factors, such as concerns about sovereignty, and economic factors such as migration, and trade integration. Analyses of the cross-sectional referendum voting pattern cannot explain how anti-EU sentiment built up over time. Since UKIP votes in the 2014 EU Parliament elections are the single most important predictor of the Vote Leave share, understanding the rise of UKIP might help to explain the role of political and economic factors in the build-up of Brexit. This paper presents new stylized facts suggesting that UKIP votes in local, national and European elections picked up dramatically in areas with weak socio-economic fundamentals, but only after 2010, at the expense of the Conservatives, and partly also Labour. The timing suggests that the Government’s austerity measures might have been a crucial trigger that helped to convert economic grievances into UKIP votes, putting increasing pressure on the Conservatives to hold the EU Referendum.
R23|Costs and Benefits of Seasonal Migration : Evidence from India|This paper provides new evidence on rural-to-urban migration decisions in developing countries. Using original survey data from rural India, we show that employment provision on local public works significantly reduces seasonal migration. Workers who choose to participate in the program forgo much higher earnings outside of the village. Structural estimates imply that the utility cost of one day away may be as high as 60% of migration earnings. Up to half of this cost can be explained by higher living costs and income risk. The other half likely reflects high non-monetary costs from living and working in the city.
R23|Has Eastern European Migration Impacted UK-born Workers?|The 2004 accession of 8 Eastern European countries to the European Union (EU) was accompanied by fears of mass migration. The United Kingdom - unlike many other EU countries - did not opt for temporary restrictions on the EU’s free movement of labour. We document that following EU accession more than 1 million people (ca. 3% of the UK working age population) migrated from Eastern Europe to the UK. We show that they mostly settled in places that had limited prior exposure to immigration. We provide evidence that these areas subsequently saw smaller wage growth at the lower end of the wage distribution and increased pressure on the welfare state, housing and public services. Using novel geographically disaggregated data by country-of-origin, we measure the effects of Eastern European migration on these outcomes for the UK-born and different groups of immigrants. Our results are important in the context of the UK’s Brexit referendum and the ongoing EU withdrawal negotiations in which migration features as a key issue.
R23|Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms|A Spanish reform granted regions the authority to set income tax rates, resulting in substantial tax differentials. Using administrative data, we find that conditional on moving, taxes have a significant effect on location choice. A 1% increase in the net-of-tax rate for a region relative to others increases the probability of moving to that region by 1.7 percentage points. We estimate an elasticity of the number of top taxpayers with respect to net-of-tax rates of 0.85. The mechanical increase in tax revenue due to higher tax rates is larger than the loss in tax revenue from the net outflow of migration.
R23|There and back again: A simple theory of planned return migration|We present supportive empirical evidence and a new theoretical explanation for the negative selection into planned return migration between similar regions in Germany. In our model costly temporary and permanent migration are used as imperfect signals to indicate workers' high but otherwise unobservable skills. Production thereby takes place in teams with individual skills as strategic complements. Wages therefore are determined by team performance and not by individual skill, which is why migration inflicts a wage loss on all workers, who expect the quality of their co-workers to decline. In order to internalise this negative migration externality, which leads to sub-optimally high levels of temporary and permanent migration in a laissez-faire equilibrium, we propose a mix of two policy instruments, which reduce initial outmigration while at the same time inducing later return migration.
R23|Residential Satisfaction for a Continuum of Households: Evidence from European Countries|Residential satisfaction depends on housing and neighborhood conditions in addition to housing cost affordability. To determine the relative importance of these factors, their average effect is usually estimated using sample data, eventually split in sub-samples in order to represent social classes. A concern about the division of households into groups is that, as groups are modified or group assignment change, results of quantitative analysis applied to such data can dramatically change. This paper follows a subjective well-being approach to study residential satisfaction. We propose a novel empirical strategy independent of the concept of social class, to estimate how the effect of drivers of residential satisfaction change on continuous according to households' income. We apply our methodology to investigate residential satisfaction in 23 European countries using 2012 EU-SILC module on housing conditions. Our results show that: (i) in Europe residential satisfaction is driven first by housing-specific characteristics, followed by neighborhood conditions and individual/household characteristics; (ii) the probability to be satisfied or very satisfied strongly differs across countries, anything else being equal; (iii) residents with different monetary resources attach importance to particular determinants of residential satisfaction.
R23|Natural Hazards and Internal Migration: The Role of Transient versus Permanent Shocks|We analyse internal migration triggered by natural disasters in Bangladesh. We conducted a survey in nine coastal districts and two major cities in Bangladesh to investigate whether floods and cyclones, which can be considered as transient shocks, affect interregional migration differently compared to riverbank erosion that causes loss of lands and thus generates shocks that are permanent in nature. Our findings suggest that transient shocks induce households to move to nearby cities while permanent shocks push people to big cities with more opportunities. Comparing income and expenditure of migrants and non-migrant households, we find that the former group is better-off relative to their counterpart, indicating that welfare can be improved by facilitating migration. Rising exposure to climate change induced natural disasters around the world imply that our findings will be increasingly relevant for designing policies to address vulnerability, particularly for disaster prone countries with weak social safety nets.
R23|Arrival of Young Talents: The Send-down Movement and Rural Education in China|"This paper studies human-capital spillovers and its persistence by exploiting a unique event in modern China|the send-down movement. From 1962 to 1979, the Chinese central government mandated the temporary resettlement of roughly 18 million urban youths to rural areas across the country. The movement's coercive features, together with strict restrictions on migration during that period, provide an ideal natural experiment to identify the causal impact of the better-educated sent-down youths (SDYs) on the less-educated local rural residents. Using a county-level dataset compiled from over 3,000 book-length local gazetteers and microlevel population censuses, we find that a greater exposure to SDYs significantly increased local residents' educational achievement. Our estimate shows that the unintended gain of rural education almost compensated the loss in urban China due to the educational disruption during the Cultural Revolution. The positive effect gradually declined as SDYs started to return to their urban homes in the late 1970s, but it never dropped to zero, indicating the persistence of human-capital spillovers. We also find suggestive evidence that the arrival of young talents reshapes the attitudes of local residents toward education."
R23|Labor supply and the business cycle: The “Bandwagon Worker Effect”|The relationship between the labor force participation and the business cycle has become a topic in the economic literature. However, few studies have considered whether the cyclical sensitivity of the labor force participation is influenced by “social effects”. In this paper, we construct a theoretical model to develop the “Added Worker Effect” and the “Discouraged Worker Effect”, and we integrate the “social effects”, coining a new concept, the Bandwagon Worker Effect (BWE). To estimate the cyclical sensitivity of the labor force participation, we employ a panel dataset of fifty Spanish provinces for the period 1977–2015. Finally, we use spatial econometrics techniques to test the existence of the BWE in the local labor markets in Spain. Our results reveal that there exists a positive spatial dependence in the cyclical sensitivity of the labor force participation that decreases as we fix a laxer neighborhood criterion, which verifies the existence of the BWE. From the perspective of economic policy, our work confirms that “social effects” play a key role at the time of determining the economic dynamics of the territories.
R23|Commuting Patterns, the Spatial Distribution of Jobs and the Gender Pay Gap in the U.S|"This paper studies to what extent gender differences in commuting patterns explain the observed disparities between husband and wife in relation to earnings and wages. It is argued that the cost of commuting is higher for women because they bear a disproportionate share of housework and child-rearing responsibilities. Therefore, female workers tend to work relatively close to home. A `job location wage gap' emerges because jobs located away from the central business district offer lower wages. Using pooled data from the American Community Survey, the results indicate that 10% of the gender pay gap among childless workers and more than 23% of the wage decline attributed to being a mother (""child pay penalty"") are explained by sex differences in commuting patterns. A conditional Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition indicates that short commutes are strongly associated with working in low-paying occupations and industries."
R23|Three pillars of urbanization: Migration, aging, and growth|Economic development in industrialized countries is characterized by rising per capita GDP, increasing life expectancy, and an ever larger share of the population living in cities. We explain this pattern within a regional innovation-driven economic growth model with labor mobility and a demographic structure of overlapping generations. The model shows that there is a natural tendency for core-periphery structures to emerge in modern knowledge-based economies.
R23|Schrumpfende Boomregionen in Deutschland|Mit dem Verlust von Beschäftigungsmöglichkeiten in wirtschaftlich stagnierenden Regionen verschlechtern sich die Zukunftsaussichten der dort lebenden Bevölkerung. Ein Rückgang der Beschäftigung kann ökonomische Schrumpfungsprozesse verstärken, wenn ein Teil der jüngeren und besser ausgebildeten Bevölkerung in andere prosperierende Regionen abwandert. Umgekehrt gibt es aber auch Regionen, in denen die Bevölkerung - entgegen dem gegenwärtigen Trend in Deutschland - zurückgeht, während die Beschäftigung deutlich ansteigt. Dort ist es für die boomenden Unternehmen schwer, die notwendigen Fachkräfte zu gewinnen, um das Wachstum des Unternehmens zu gewährleisten. Die demografische Entwicklung dieser Regio-nen stellt ein Wachstumshindernis dar. Wenn sich diese Situation weiter verschlechtert, müssen Unternehmen möglicherweise einzelne Funktionen oder das ganze Betriebe an andere inländi-sche oder ausländische Standorte verlagern, die attraktiver für qualifizierte Mitarbeiter sind. Anhand der Entwicklung von Bevölkerung und sozialversicherungspflichtiger Beschäftigung werden die schrumpfenden Boomregionen in Deutschland ermittelt. Die dabei identifizierten Problemregionen weisen deutlich eine überdurchschnittlich ausgeprägte Anspannung am Arbeitsmarkt auf. Darauf aufbauend wird untersucht, in welche Richtung der gesamtdeutsche Zusammenhang zwischen Bevölkerung und Beschäftigung ausgeprägt ist. Es zeigt sich, sich beide Indikatoren gegenseitig positiv beeinflussen. Den drohenden Abwärtstendenzen, die sich trotz positiver wirtschaftlicher Aussichten ergeben können, muss durch Anstrengungen der beteiligten Unternehmen und Kommunen begegnet werden. Gemeinsam müssen sie die Attraktivität der Städte besonders für mobile und gut qualifizierte Bevölkerungsgruppen stärken.
R23|Sorting in an urban housing market - is there a response to demographic change?|"In urban areas, there is considerable neighbourhood-level variation in population characteristics. Using Dortmund as a case study we analyse whether and to what extent rents, housing prices and segregation dynamics corresponded with demographic ageing in urban neighbourhoods between 2007 and 2016. We find that in Dortmund so far there has been no slump of the housing market in neighbourhoods where the population ages more rapidly. Nevertheless, over the study period demographic segregation was on the rise and, according to a hedonic analysis, prices for apartments were higher in districts with a comparatively ""younger"" population. In the course of further demographic change in Germany, which has come to a contemporary halt due to immigration, the response to ageing on urban housing markets in terms of location choice and prices may therefore become more evident. A large-scale urban regeneration project has revitalised the housing market of a declining Dortmund community during this decade. Since local ageing has not affected housing markets severely so far, it appears to be within the scope of urban policy to upgrade the attractiveness of ageing neighbourhoods as perceived by younger generations."
R23|Opportunities and Competition in Thick Labor Markets: Evidence from Plant Closures|Since Marshall (1890), it has been widely held in urban economic theory that cities ensure workers against the risk of unemployment by offering a larger pool of potential jobs. Using a large administrative panel data set on workers affected by firm closures, we examine whether positive effects from a higher urban job density are offset by more intense competition between workers. When controlling for the sorting of workers between regions, we find no evidence that the number of days workers spend in unemployment decreases with local job density. Instead, longer unemployment periods in cities are partly driven by more intense competition for available jobs
R23|Does the internet increase the job finding rate? Evidence from a period of internet expansion|We examine the impact of household access to the internet on job finding rates in Germany during a period (2006_2009) in which internet access increased rapidly, and job-seekers in-creased their use of the internet as a search tool. During this period, household access to the internet was almost completely dependent on connection to a particular technology (DSL). We therefore exploit the variation in connection rates across municipalities as an instrument for household access to the internet. OLS estimates which control for differences in individual and local area characteristics suggest a job-finding advantage of about five percentage points. The IV estimates are substantially larger, but much less precisely estimated. However, we cannot reject the hypothesis that, conditional on observables, residential computer access with internt was as good as randomly assigned with respect to the job-finding rate. The hypothesis that residential computer access with internet helped job-seekers find work because of its affect on the job search process is supported by the finding that residential internet access greatly increased the use of the internet as a search method. We find some evidence that computer access reduced the use of traditional job search methods, but this effect is outweighed by the increase in internet-based search methods.
R23|Decomposing the Returns to Regional Mobility|This paper studies the returns to regional mobility based on a sample of job-to-job transitions in Germany. Additionally, we provide evidence for the selection mechanisms into regional mobility and sorting into firms and matches. Using linked employer-employee data we estimate a wage decomposition including individual, firm and match fixed effects. Our (preliminary) results suggest a wage level increase of 28% for regionally mobile individuals, whereas workers making a job-to-job transition in their local labor market region experience an increase of 24%. Further, workers generally experience a move to higher paying firms, whereas this effect is smallest for regionally mobile workers. In addition, workers find relatively better matches due to the job-to-job transition; with regionally mobile workers benefiting most form this increase in match quality.
R23|"The ""China shock"" revisited: Insights from value added trade flows"|We exploit a decomposition of gross trade flows into their value added components to reassess the relationship between increased imports from China and manufacturing jobs in US local labour markets following the seminal paper of Autor, Dorn, and Hanson (2013, ADH). Decomposed trade flows enable us to address identification and measurement issues inherent to gross trade data. In particular, it allows us to remove US value added in Chinese exports from the exposure measure which is mechanically correlated with the dependent variable and overstates the volume of the trade shock. In addition, the decomposition permits to correct for double counting, to remove primary and services inputs in manufacturing exports, and to assign competition to the upstream industry that supplied the value added rather than the final exporting industry. This further reduces the volume of the shock and improves the accuracy of the import exposure measure. Consequently, we find considerable differences in the pattern of regions that are most affected by the trade shock and show that imports from China can explain less of the decline in US manufacturing than what gross trade data would suggest. We then separate the shock into a China-driven domestic reform and a thirdcountry-driven value chain component, and find in line with ADH that the smaller, but still negative labour market effects are indeed China driven. Finally, we observe that the negative effects identified in ADH are not present in the 2008-2014 period, as labour market adjustment has largely concluded. The long time needed for adjustment may have been prolonged by the evolution of China's comparative advantage.
R23|Secondary education and international labor mobility: Evidence from the free secondary education reform in the Philippines|International labor mobility is a key factor for a well-functioning labor market. Although educational attainment is known to affect regional labor mobility within a country, evidence of a relationship between schooling and international labor mobility is limited, particularly in developing countries. This study uses the across-cohort variation in the exposure to the 1988 free secondary education reform in the Philippines to examine the impact of years of education on the propensity of working abroad. The results suggest that attaining another year of schooling increases the likelihood of working abroad by 3 and 8 percentage points for men and women, respectively. These results suggest that education improves the ability to deal with negative economic shocks by allowing individuals to find employment in the international labor market.
R23|ロシア地域出生率の動態と決定要因 : 動学的パネルデータ分析|本稿の目的は，2005～2015 年を観察期間とする，ロシア連邦構成主体のパネルデータを用いて，地域出生率の決定要因を実証的に検証することである。システム一般積率化推定量を用いた状態依存動学モデルの推定結果は，分析対象地域の経済成長，潜在的雇用機会，地元企業の良好な経営状態，教育機会，社会資本の質及び住宅供給の6 要因は，当該地域の出生率を押し上げる効果を持つ一方，スラブ民族のプレゼンス，人口流入，貧困及び環境リスクの4 要因は，対象地域の出生率を抑制する方向に作用する可能性を強く示唆した。更に，本稿の推定結果は，ロシア女性の出産行動に強く影響する諸因子の組み合わせは，異なる年齢間や地域間で大きく相違する事実も明らかにした。ロシアの少子化傾向を効果的に抑制するためには，年齢層や地域の異質性に配慮したきめ細かい政策の立案と実施が求められる。
R23|Of Cities and Slums|The emergence of slums is a common feature in a country's path towards urbanization, structural transformation and development. Based on salient micro and macro evidence of Brazilian labor, housing and education markets, we construct a simple model to examine the conditions for slums to emerge. We then use the model to examine whether slums are barriers or stepping stones for lower skilled households and for the development of the country as a whole. We calibrate our model to explore the dynamic interaction between skill formation, income inequality and structural transformation with the rise (and potential fall) of slums in Brazil. We then conduct policy counterfactuals. For instance, we find that cracking down on slums could slow down the acquisition of human capital, the growth of cities (outside slums) and non-agricultural employment. The impact of reducing housing barriers to entry into cities and of different forms of school integration between the city and the slums is also explored.
R23|Job market outcomes for IDPs: The case of Georgia|Internally displaced people (IDPs) constitute a serious economic, social and cultural problem for many countries, including countries in transition. Despite the importance of the problem, there are only a handful of previous studies investigating the issue of labour market outcomes for IDPs. Moreover, the impact of protracted displacement has not been addressed in academic work at all. We aim to fill this gap in the literature using 13 years (2004–2016) of Integrated Household Surveys from Georgia, which has experienced a large flow of internal migrants from the early 1990s until now. Our analyses indicate that the labour market outcomes for IDPs are much worse than those for local residents. Specifically, IDPs are 3.9–11.2 percentage points less likely to be in the labour force, depending on the period and duration of IDP status. IDPs are also up to 11.6 percentage points more likely to be unemployed, even after 20 years of forced displacement. Finally, IDPs residing in a locality for more than five years receive persistently lower wages than local residents with similar characteristics, with the gap widening over time, reaching some 11% in the last period under analysis.
R23|The Transformation of Manufacturing and the Decline in U.S. Employment|Using data from a variety of sources, this paper comprehensively documents the dramatic changes in the manufacturing sector and the large decline in employment rates and hours worked among prime-aged Americans since 2000. We use cross-region variation to explore the link between declining manufacturing employment and labor market outcomes. We find that manufacturing decline in a local area in the 2000s had large and persistent negative effects on local employment rates, hours worked and wages. We also show that declining local manufacturing employment is related to rising local opioid use and deaths. These results suggest that some of the recent opioid epidemic is driven by demand factors in addition to increased opioid supply. We conclude the paper with a discussion of potential mediating factors associated with declining manufacturing labor demand including public and private transfer receipt, sectoral switching, and inter-region mobility. Overall, we conclude that the decline in manufacturing employment was a substantial cause of the decline in employment rates during the 2000s particularly for less educated prime age workers. Given the trends in both capital and skill deepening within this sector, we further conclude that many policies currently being discussed to promote the manufacturing sector will have only a modest labor market impact for less educated individuals.
R23|Do Workers Make Good Neighbours? The Impact of Local Employment on Young Male and Female Entrants to the Labour Market|This paper investigates the social endogenous effect linking the employment probability of young workers entering the labour market to the local employment rate. We focus on the transition from school to work, using a representative sample of youths leaving the French educational system in 1998 and 2004. We identify the causal effect of local employment rate using a neighbourhood fixed-effect strategy (Bayer et al, 2007). We provide evidence that the within-neighbourhood random allocation assumption is likely to hold. The results show that an individual's own employment is strongly affected by the share of working people in their neighbourhood, estimates being higher for high-school dropouts. Results also reveal gender differences, suggesting that young people are more sensitive to same-sex neighbours.
R23|Looking beyond the farm and household: Determinants of on-farm diversification in India|"This paper analyses the factors affecting on-farm diversification decision. Notwithstanding the influence of farm and household conditions, studies have also highlighted the role of external pull factors on farm diversification. Though appraised in scholarship, this aspect has eluded an empirical scrutiny in literature. Taking India as a case, this study shows that apart from farm and household factors, there is a broader agro-ecological and structural feature which impacts on-farm diversification decision. Correcting for endogeneity in a seemingly unrelated system of ordered probit models, a ""three-stage"" residual inclusion model is estimated. The findings show that proximity to social infrastructure such as schools, colleges, and access to public transport matters for diversification. Results also show that though urbanization may increase demand for variety of products, it might as well impinge upon farm labor supply as non-farm opportunities also rises with urbanization. Thus, the underlying structure of the local economy also merits attention while understanding on-farm diversification process."
R23|So close yet so unequal: Neighborhood inequality in American cities|This paper contributes to the literature on neighborhood inequality along both theoretical and empirical lines. We introduce a new neighborhood inequality index (NI) to measure income inequality within individual neighborhoods of varying sizes, and study its normative and statistical properties. The NI index is used in combination with a large database of income distributions defined on a fine-grained geographic scale to study neighborhood inequality in American cities over the last 35 years. Inequality within small individual neighborhoods is found to grow steadily over the period, albeit heterogeneously across cities. We investigate the intergenerational consequences of a rising NI index, exploiting labor market responses to minimum wage regulation as a source of identification. We find that lower neighborhood inequality during childhood makes income mobility for children with a disadvantaged parental background more likely.
R23|Followed by Violence: Forced Immigration and Homicides|We study the causal impact of large inflows of internal displaced people (IDP) on homicides in Colombian host municipalities during the period 1999-2014. Following two distinct instrumental variable approaches while leveraging on high quality and high frequency administrative panel data on IDP flows and homicides across Colombian municipalities, we identify an economically sizable impact: a standard deviation increase in inflows, increases the homicides rate by 0.6 standard deviations. This effects is larger in cities and among men. While IDP inflows are associated with increasing homicide rates for all the age groups, we document that the standardized effects are larger for young individuals (i.e., age groups 15-19 and 20-24 years old).
R23|“What drives the spatial wage premium for formal and informal workers? The case of Ecuador”|This article investigates the incidence of agglomeration externalities in a typical developing country, Ecuador. In particular, we analyze the role of the informal sector within these relations, since informal employment accounts for a significant part of total employment in the developing countries. Using individual level data and instrumental variable techniques, we investigate the impact of spatial externalities, in terms of population size and local specialization, on the wages of workers in Ecuadorian cities. The results show that spatial externalities matter also for a typical developing country, especially as far as urbanization externalities are concerned. Moreover, analysis of the interaction between spatial externalities and the informal economy shows a general penalization for informal workers in terms of benefits arising from agglomeration externalities. Finally, by investigating the possible channels behind the heterogeneity found in spatial agglomeration gains between formal and informal workers, we show that the advantages from agglomeration for formal workers may well be accounted for by positive sorting and better gains from job changes, while for informal workers they arise from positive learning externalities.
R23|Inference for the neighborhood inequality index|The neighborhood inequality (NI) index measures aspects of spatial inequality in the distribution of incomes within the city. The NI index is defi ned as a population average of the normalized income gap between each individual's income (observed at a given location in the city) and the incomes of the neighbors, living within a certain distance range from that individual. This paper provides minimum bounds for the NI index standard error and shows that unbiased estimators can be identifi ed under fairly common hypothesis in spatial statistics. These estimators are shown to depend exclusively on the variogram, a measure of spatial dependence in the data. Rich income data are then used to infer about trends of neighborhood inequality in Chicago, IL over the last 35 years. Results from a Monte Carlo study support the relevance of the standard error approximations.
R23|Women and Migration|While scholars have long studied the economics of migration, increasing waves of international and regional migration around the world have placed greater focus on the varied impacts of migration in recent years. Critical to this line of research is an examination of the important role that women play in both sending and destination areas. This chapter addresses various aspects of the relationship between women and migration, including key ways in which non-migrant women are affected by migration, as well as how female migrants affect families and labor markets in both source and destination communities. Selection factors and determinants of female migration, as well as the gendered impacts of migrant networks, are also discussed.
R23|Experienced and Inherited Disadvantage: A Longitudinal Study of Early Adulthood Neighbourhood Careers of Siblings|"Longer term exposure to high poverty neighbourhoods can affect individual socio-economic outcomes later in life. Previous research has shown strong path dependence in individual neighbourhood histories. A growing literature shows that the neighbourhood histories of people is linked to the neighbourhoods of their childhood and parental characteristics. To better understand intergenerational transmission of living in deprived neighbourhoods it is important to distinguish between inherited disadvantage (socio-economic position) and contextual disadvantage (environmental context in which children grow up). The objective of this paper is to come to a better understanding of the effects of inherited and contextual disadvantage on the neighbourhood careers of children once they have left the parental home. We use a quasi-experimental family design exploiting sibling relationships, including real sibling pairs, and ""synthetic siblings"" who are used as a control group. Using rich register data from Sweden we find that real siblings live more similar lives in terms of neighbourhood experiences during their independent residential career than synthetic sibling pairs. This difference reduces over time. Real siblings are still less different than synthetic pairs but the difference gets smaller with time, indicating a quicker attenuation of the family effect on residential outcomes than the neighbourhood effect."
R23|International import competition and the decision to migrate: Evidence from Mexico|We analyze the effects of the increase in China's import competition on Mexican domestic and international migration. We exploit the variation in exposure to competition from China, following its accession to the WTO in 2001, across Mexican municipalities and estimate the effect of international competition on the individual decision to migrate. Controlling for individual and municipality features, we find that individuals living in municipalities more exposed to Chinese import competition are more likely to migrate to other municipalities within Mexico, while a negative effect is found on the decision to migrate to the US. In particular, we find that Chinese import competition reduces migrants' negative self-selection: the rising international competition lowers the likelihood of low-educated, low-income people to migrate to the US, by making them more financially constrained. We do not find any evidence that changes in demand for Mexican workers in the US drive our results.
R23|Deprivation, Segregation, and Socioeconomic Class of UK Immigrants: Does English Proficiency Matter?|This paper studies the causal effect of English proficiency on residential location outcomes and the socioeconomic class of immigrants in England and Wales, exploiting a natural experiment. Based on the phenomenon that young children learn a new language more easily than older children, we construct an instrument for English proficiency using age at arrival in the United Kingdom. Taking advantage of a unique dataset, we measure the extent of residential segregation along different dimensions, and find that poor English skills lead immigrants to live in areas with a high concentration of people who speak their same native language, but not necessarily in areas with a high concentration of people of their same ethnicity or country of birth. This finding could suggest that, for immigrants with poor English proficiency, what matters for their residential location decision is language spoken by residents, as opposed to ethnicity or country of birth. We also find that language skills have an impact on the occupation-based socioeconomic class of immigrants: Poor English skills reduce the likelihood of being in the occupation-based class 'higher managerial and professional' and increase that of being in the class 'self-employment'.
R23|The Pot Rush: Is Legalized Marijuana a Positive Local Amenity?|This paper examines the amenity value of legalized marijuana by analyzing the impact of marijuana legalization on migration to Colorado. Colorado is the pioneering state in this area having legalized medical marijuana in 2000 and recreational marijuana in 2012. We test whether potential migrants to Colorado view legalized marijuana as a positive or negative local amenity. We use the synthetic control methodology to examine in- and out-migration to/from Colorado versus migration to/from counterfactual versions of Colorado that have not legalized marijuana. We find strong evidence that potential migrants view legalized marijuana as a positive amenity with in-migration significantly higher in Colorado compared with synthetic- Colorado after the writing of the Ogden memo in 2009 that effectively allowed state laws already in place to be activated, and additionally after marijuana was legalized in 2013 for recreational use. When we employ permutation methods to assess the statistical likelihood of our results given our sample, we find that Colorado is a clear and significant outlier. We find no evidence for changes in out-migration from Colorado suggesting that marijuana legalization did not change the equilibrium for individuals already living in the state.
R23|The Temporal Dynamics of Neighborhood Disadvantage in Childhood and Subsequent Problem Behavior in Adolescence|Research on neighborhood effects has increasingly focused on how long children have lived in a deprived neighborhood during childhood (duration), but has typically ignored when in childhood the exposure occurred (timing) and whether circumstances were improving or deteriorating (sequencing). Using Dutch register data, we applied sequence analysis to simultaneously capture duration, timing, and sequencing of exposure to neighborhood (dis)advantage in childhood. Compared to children who lived in a deprived neighborhood throughout childhood, we found that children who were exposed to neighborhood deprivation only during adolescence were equally likely to become a teenage parent and were more likely to drop out of school. Unexpectedly, children who lived in an affluent neighbor-hood throughout childhood were most likely to engage in delinquent behavior.
R23|Freedom from the Tyranny of Neighbourhood: Rethinking Socio-Spatial Context Effects|Theory behind neighbourhood effects suggests that different geographies and scales affect individual outcomes. We argue that neighbourhood effects research needs to break away from the tyranny of neighbourhood and consider alternative ways to measure the wider socio-spatial context of people, placing individuals at the centre of the approach. We review theoretical and empirical approaches to place and space from a multitude of disciplines and the geographical scopes of neighbourhood effects mechanisms. Ultimately, we suggest ways in which micro-geographic data can be used to operationalise socio-spatial context for neighbourhood effects, where data pragmatism should be supplanted by a theory-driven data exploration.
R23|How Do Households Adjust to Trade Liberalization? Evidence from China's WTO Accession|We investigate the impacts of trade liberalization on household behaviors and outcomes in urban China, exploiting regional variation in the exposure to tariff cuts resulting from WTO entry. Regions that initially specialized in industries facing larger tariff cuts experienced relative declines in wages. Households responded to this income shock in several ways. First, household members worked more, especially in the non-tradable sector. Second, more young adults co-resided with their parents, and thus household size increased. Third, households saved less. These behaviors significantly buffered the negative wage shock induced by trade liberalization.
R23|Growing Up in Ethnic Enclaves: Language Proficiency and Educational Attainment of Immigrant Children|Does a high regional concentration of immigrants of the same ethnicity affect immigrant children\'s acquisition of host-country language skills and educational attainment? We exploit the exogenous placement of guest workers from five ethnicities across German regions during the 1960s and 1970s in a model with region and ethnicity fixed effects. Our results indicate that exposure to a higher own-ethnic concentration impairs immigrant children\'s host-country language proficiency and increases school dropout. A key mediating factor for this effect is parents\' lower speaking proficiency in the host-country language, whereas inter-ethnic contacts with natives and economic conditions do not play a role.
R23|Immigration, Housing Rents, and Residential Segregation: Evidence from Syrian Refugees in Turkey|The massive inflow of Syrian refugees is argued to drastically affect various social and economic outcomes in the hosting countries and regions. In this paper, we use micro-level data to investigate whether the Syrian refugee inflows have affected the market for housing rentals in Turkey. The unexpected arrival of a large number of refugees due to civil conflict in Syria is used to construct a quasi-experimental design. Since the construction of new housing units takes a long time, refugee inflow resembles a positive demand shock to the sector. We find that the refugee inflows have led to an increase in the rents of higher-quality housing units, while there is no statistically significant effect in the rents of lower-quality units. This finding supports a residential segregation story, which suggests that the refugee wave has increased the demand for native-dominant neighborhoods with better amenities especially among natives. We argue that negative attitudes towards refugees – potentially due to refugee-native conflict along several dimensions – may be generating this result.
R23|Labor Demand Shocks and Housing Prices across the US: Does One Size Fit All?|This paper examines whether effects of labor demand shocks on housing prices vary across time and space. Using data on 321 US metropolitan statistical areas, we estimate the medium- and long-run effects of increases in metropolitan statistical area-level employment and total labor income on housing prices. Instrumental variable estimates for different time periods, and also for coastal, non-coastal, large, and small metropolitan statistical areas are obtained using the shift-share instrument. Results suggest that labor demand shocks have positive effects on housing prices. However, these effects appear to vary across time periods and across different types of metropolitan statistical areas.
R23|The Golden Middle Class Neighborhood: Trends in Residential Segregation and Consequences for Offspring Outcomes|Based on Norwegian administrative registers we provide new empirical evidence on the effects of the childhood neighborhood's socioeconomic status on educational and labor market performance. A neighborhood's status is measured annually by its prime age inhabitants' earnings ranks within larger commuting zones, and the childhood neighborhood status is the average status of the neighborhoods inhabited from birth to age 15. Identification of causal effects relies on within-family comparisons. Our results reveal a hump-shaped relationship between the socioeconomic status of the childhood neighborhood and school results at age 15-16, such that the optimal neighborhood is of medium rank. The top-ranked neighbor-hoods are as bad as the bottom-ranked. Similar results are obtained for educational and labor market outcomes measured at higher ages.
R23|Inequality, Reordering and Divergent Growth: Processes of Neighbourhood Change in Dutch Cities|The socio-economic mosaic of urban neighbourhoods changes under the influence of three distinctive distributional processes: reordering of the socio-economic position of urban neighbourhoods; changing levels of inequality between neighbourhoods; and an overall growth or decline in income levels which affects all neighbourhoods of an urban area. With the common practices in analysing neighbourhood change, the roles of these underlying processes are unclear. This paper builds on a decomposition method to analyse the roles of the three components of change in four largest Dutch city-regions. The results points to substantial variations in components of change in the four city-regions.
R23|Institutions, Attitudes and LGBT: Evidence from the Gold Rush|This paper analyzes the determinants behind the spatial distribution of the LGBT population in the U.S. We relate the size of the present-day LGBT population to the discovery of gold mines during the 19th century gold rushes. Comparing the surroundings of these gold mines to other current and former mining counties, we find that there are currently 10-15% more same-sex couples in counties in which gold discoveries were made during the gold rushes. We also provide empirical evidence that residents of gold rush counties still have more favorable attitudes toward homosexuality nowadays. Our findings are consistent with two mechanisms. First, gold rushes led to a large (temporary) increase in the male-to-female ratio. Second, we show that gold rush counties were less likely to house a notable place of worship at the time of the discovery (and in the following decades) and are currently less religious, suggesting a role of institutions in shaping attitudes and norms.
R23|International Migration and the Distribution of Income in New Zealand Metropolitan and Non-Metropolitan Areas|Since the 1980s, income inequality in New Zealand has been a growing concern - particularly in metropolitan areas. At the same time, the encouragement of permanent and temporary immigration has led to the foreign-born accounting for a growing share of the population; this is disproportionally so in metropolitan areas. This paper investigates the impact of immigration, by skill level and length of stay, on the distribution of income in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. We apply decomposition methodologies to data obtained from the 1986, 1991, 1996, 2001, 2006 and 2013 Censuses of Population and Dwellings. We find that increases in the immigrant share of population in an area have an inequality-increasing and area-specific effect. Changes in immigrant-group-specific distributions of income are inequality reducing in non-metropolitan areas but inequality increasing in metropolitan areas. Inequality increased in metropolitan areas because the overall inequality-increasing effect of immigration is larger than the inequality-reducing changes for the New Zealand-born. The opposite is the case in non-metropolitan areas: the overall inequality-reducing change in the income distribution of the New Zealand born there is larger than the inequality-increasing effect of immigration. The methodologies adopted here can also benefit the study of income distribution changes in countries with similar immigration policies, such as Australia and Canada.
R23|On the Origin and Composition of the German East-West Population Gap|The East-West gap in the German population is believed to originate from migrants escaping the socialist regime in the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We use newly collected regional data and the combination of a regression discontinuity design in space with a difference-in-differences approach to document that the largest part of this gap is due to a massive internal migration wave 3 years prior to the establishment of the GDR. The timing and spatial pattern of this migration movement suggest that the dominant motive was escaping physical assault by the Soviet army and not avoiding the socialist regime. The skill composition of these migrants shows a strong positive selection. The gap in population has remained remarkably sharp in space and is growing.
R23|Marshallian vs Jacobs Effects: Which One Is Stronger? Evidence for Russia Unemployment Dynamics|This paper is devoted to the study of diversification and specialization influence on one of the main indicators of Russian labour market, the unemployment growth. The purpose of the work is to find out which effects dominate in the Russian regions, Marshallian or Jacobs, and whether this predominance is stable for different time intervals. The following hypotheses were empirically tested: 1) the dependence of the unemployment rate on the degree of concentration or diversification is non-monotonic due to possible overlapping effects of urbanization and localization; 2) the influence of the degree of concentration or diversification on the level of unemployment depends on the time period. To test these hypotheses nonparametric additive models with spatial effects were used. Both hypotheses found empirical confirmation. It was shown that in Russia, depending on the period, various effects dominated: in 2008-2010, and 2013-2016 Marshallian effects predominated, while in 2010-2013, Jacobs effects dominated.
R23|The 2015 European Refugee Crisis and Residential Housing Rents in Germany|This paper studies the impact at county level of the mass arrival of refugees in 2015 on residential housing rents in Germany. Using unique and novel data for 2014 and 2015 on end of year (EoY) county-level refugee populations and their type of accommodation as well as on monthly individual offers of flats for rent from Germany’s leading online property broker, we find strong evidence for a negative effect of refugee immigration on rental prices for residential housing in Germany. An increase in the county-level EoY refugee share by one percentage point is associated with a lower average rental price of 0.57% in the period October to December 2015, and a lower average rental price of 0.97% in January to March 2016. Additional evidence suggests that this negative price effect may have been facilitated by increases in the share of refugees in decentralized accommodation. IV regressions that exploit for identification variation in intra-state distances between counties that house refugee reception centers and surrounding counties produce even stronger negative price effects. Our finding of a negative price effect is at odds with the majority of studies which have investigated the consequences of immigration for local property markets at the county or city level. These diverging results may reflect differences in natives’ perceptions of potential adverse externalities associated with refugee migration, differences of seemingly sufficient magnitude to successfully counteract and outweigh any positive demand-side driven stimulus of immigration for higher rental prices.
R23|In-State College Enrollment and Later Life Location Decisions|State and local policymakers are very interested in how attending college in one’s home state affects the likelihood of living in that state after college. This paper uses cohort-level data from the American Community Survey, decennial censuses, and other sources to examine how birth-state college enrollment affects birth-state residence several years later. Ordinary least squares and instrumental variables estimates both suggest a statistically significant positive relationship. The preferred instrumental variable estimates suggest that a one percentage point increase in birth-state enrollment rates increases later life birth-state residence by roughly 0.33 percentage points. Implications for policy are discussed.
R23|Displacement in Bengal, revisited|Bengal was divided twice in the 20th century. At the first occasion, both sides were still within British India. Then, on the second occasion, Bengal split the two into different countries, India and Pakistan. We examine the displacements in Bengal after the partition in 1947 with the finest geographical level at thana. The results show that there were significantly negative impacts on population growth on the region which changed their side from East in 1905 to West in 1947. They also experienced an increase in the share of literate population, suggesting the impact of population exchange in different levels of literacy.
R23|On the Origin of the German East-West Population Gap|The East-West gap in the German population is believed to originate from migrants escaping the socialist regime in the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We use newly collected regional data and the combination of a regression discontinuity design in space with a difference-in-differences approach to document that the largest part of this gap is due to a massive internal migration wave 3 years prior to the establishment of the GDR. The timing and spatial pattern of this migration movement suggest that the dominant motive was escaping physical assault by the Soviet army and not avoiding the socialist regime. The gap in population has remained remarkably sharp in space and is growing.
R23|Migration restrictions and long-term regional development: evidence from large-scale expulsions of Germans after World War II|Migration restrictions are a hotly debated topic in the current refugee crisis in Europe. This paper investigates the long-term effect of a restrictive migration policy on regional development. The analysis is based on the large-scale expulsion of Germans from Central and Eastern Europe after World War II (WWII). Expellees were not allowed to resettle in the French occupation zone in the first years after the War while there was no such legislation in the other occupation zones (U.S.; U.K; Soviet Union). The temporary migration barrier had long-lasting consequences. In a nutshell, results of a Difference-in-Difference (DiD) analysis show that growth of population has been significantly lower in the long run, if a region was part of the French occupation zone. Even 60 years after the removal of the barrier the degree of agglomeration is still significantly lower in these areas. The paper discusses implications for the current refugee crisis.
R23|Urbanization And International Migration From Africa|Climate change exacerbates desertification forcing millions of rural people to urbanize, especially in developing countries. Our quantitative analysis across African countries highlights migrants’ two typical sequential moves: i) people escape from villages to cities; ii) through cities’ enabling settings, some of them emigrate to developed countries. We find that: i) previous lower fresh water availability – our climate-related proxy – and drops in GDP’s agricultural share in Sub-Sahara seem to boost subsequent urbanization: ii) previously heightened urbanization subsequently inflates emigration rates. Thus, policies to combat land impoverishment/desertification would help both the environment and easing the stress that migration casts on societies’ balance.
R23|Does promoting homeownership always damage labour market performances?|Abstract In this paper we analyse the link between homeownership and various aggregate and individual labour market outcomes. Our aim is to investigate the likely consequences of public policies that promote homeownership. To this end, we develop a circular firm-worker matching model with Nash-bargained wage setting and free market entry. Homeowners are assumed to be less mobile than tenants and to bear higher mobility costs. Our numerical exercises show that tenants usually have lower unemployment rates and lower wage rates than homeowners. Importantly, workers’ performances do not necessarily improve following an increase in the proportion of homeowners. The latter crucially depends on the relative utility enjoyed by homeowners and tenants when unemployed. In the aggregate, nevertheless, we find that the unemployment rate generally increases following an increase in the proportion of homeowners. Yet, the link between the two can be reversed if the homeowners’ utility is lower than that of tenants when unemployed. Our model thus identifies a number of conditions under which Oswald’s conjecture is likely to hold or not. Thus, our results do not necessarily support the view that policies fostering homeownership are adequate public policies given their potentially negative effect on the labour market.
R23|South Africa's Rural Livelihood Dynamics| This paper discusses the changing profile of rural livelihoods in South Africa using the National Income Dynamics Study Waves 1 - 3. The rural sector is undergoing compositional change, with the literature suggesting a phenomenon of de-agrarianisation taking place as households are choosing to move away from agriculture as their main livelihood source. This concept, and others, are interrogated by constructing a panel and looking at the movement of individuals into and out of various states over the period 2008-2012. This is a crucial period for South Africa following fourteen years of policy changes since entering democracy and thus being at the beginning of a period where the country starts setting its path for the future. The analysis finds support for the notion of deagrarianisation, most prominently through the movement of individuals away from agriculture in rural labour markets and the decision by households to cease farming activities outside of formal employment. Rural-urban migration to find work was another identified livelihood strategy, although in South Africa there is also a simultaneous significant, albeit lesser, movement of individuals in the opposite direction. Grants were also shown to have become more prominent for rural livelihoods over the study period. Key words: agriculture, food security, migration, employment, rural development JEL codes: N57, N97, Q18, R11, R12, R23
