R31|Modelos hedónicos con efectos espaciales: una aproximación al cálculo de índices de precios de vivienda para Bogotá|En este documento se estima un índice de precios de vivienda nueva para la ciudad de Bogotá empleando la base de datos de La Galería Inmobiliaria, empresa dedicada a la recolección de información del mercado inmobiliario en Colombia. La metodología de precios hedónicos aquí propuesta presenta tres ventajas con respecto a los índices de vivienda que se calculan en la actualidad para esta ciudad: i) considera que un inmueble es un bien diferenciado, cuyo precio está definido en función de sus características, ii) incorpora de manera parsimoniosa la ubicación de las viviendas por medio de un modelo de econometría espacial, y iii) utiliza una ventana de tiempo para la estimación del índice, haciendo que no sea susceptible a modificaciones ante incorporaciones de nuevos datos. Los resultados muestran que la bondad de ajuste del índice resultante es significativamente mayor a la de los que se producen en la actualidad, que los coeficientes presentan el comportamiento esperado y son estables en el tiempo, y que el índice es robusto a cambios en la participación de inmuebles que se ubican en las colas de la distribución de precios, gracias a la modelación de vecindarios en la estimación espacial. **** ABSTRACT: In this document a new housing price index is calculated for Bogota using data from La Galería Inmobiliaria, company dedicated to the collection of information from the real estate market in Colombia. The hedonic price methodology proposed here presents three advantages over the housing price indexes which are currently produced for the city: i) it considers that a dwelling is a differentiated good, whose price is defined as a function of its characteristics, ii) incorporates in an parsimonious fashion the location of the residences through a spatial econometric model, and iii) it uses a rolling time window to produce the index, making it not susceptible to changes after including new data. The results show that the goodness of fit of the resulting index is significantly higher than the observed in the current indexes, the coefficients presents the expected behavior and are stable over time, and the results are robust to changes in the participation of dwellings located in the tails of the price distribution.
R31|Can regulation on loan-loss-provisions for credit risk affect the mortgage market? Evidence from administrative data in Chile|We argue that financial institutions responded by raising their acceptable borrowing standards on borrowers, enhancing the quality of their portfolio, but also contracting their supply of mortgage credit. We reach this conclusion by developing a stylized imperfect information model which we use to guide our empirical analysis. We conclude that the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio was 2.8% lower for the mean borrower, and 9.8% lower for the median borrower, because of the regulation. Our paper contributes to the literature on the evaluation of macro-prudential policies, which has mainly exploited cross-country evidence. In turn, our analysis narrows down to one particular policy in the mortgage market, and dissects its effects by exploiting unique administrative tax data on the census of all real estate transactions in Chilean territory, in the period 2012-2016.
R31|Boom de crédito en Uruguay: Identificación y Anticipación|In this paper we review the most used methodologies for the identification of credit boom episodes as ex post identification threshold techniques that can be used to identify episodes in Uruguay between 1985 and 2018. We estimate a Bayesian Model Average (BMA) that allows the identification and early prediction of credit booms based on the interrelation between these episodes and the macroeconomic aggregates. Considering the evolution of GDP, private consumption, investment, public spending, imports, exports, the exchange rate, the terms of trade, the current account and the capital account and financial information as a percentage of GDP, it is possible to determine the probability of being in an episode of credit boom up to two quarters in advance. Following this methodology, 3 episodes are identified, from the second quarter of 2000 to the first quarter of 2003, from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2010 and from the second quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2015.
R31|Predicción de precios de vivienda: Aprendizaje estadístico con datos de oferta y transacciones para la ciudad de Montevideo|En este trabajo se presentan modelos predictivos para el precio de un activo de difícil valuación como la vivienda. Se utilizan dos fuentes de datos para la ciudad de Montevideo: una proveniente de sitios web (a través de web scraping) y otra de registros administrativos de transacciones. Se implementan tres modelos fácilmente replicables: modelo lineal, árbol de regresión y bosques aleatorios. Los resultados arrojan una mejor performance del modelo de bosques aleatorios respecto al modelo lineal hedónico, ampliamente difundido en la literatura. Se busca incorporar al análisis de predicción de precios una metodología aún escasamente difundida a nivel nacional, implementada en el software R y poner a disposición una nueva base de datos.
R31|Changing supply elasticities and regional housing booms|Recent developments in US house prices mirror those of the 1996-2006 boom, but the recovery in construction activity has been weak. Using data for 254 US metropolitan areas, we show that housing supply elasticities have fallen markedly in recent years. Consistent with this, we ?nd that monetary policy shocks have a stronger e?ect on house prices during the recent recovery than the previous boom. At the same time, building permits respond less. Finally, we ?nd that housing supply elasticities have declined more in areas where land-use regulation has tightened the most, and in areas that experienced the sharpest housing busts.
R31|Changing supply elasticities and regional housing booms|Recent developments in US house prices mirror those of the 1996-2006 boom, but the recovery in construction activity has been weak. Using data for 254 US metropolitan areas, we show hat housing supply elasticities have fallen markedly in recent years. Housing supply elasticities have declined more in areas where land-use regulation has tightened the most, and in areas that experienced the sharpest housing busts. A lowering of the housing supply elasticity implies a strengthened price responsiveness to demand shocks, whereas quantity reacts less. Consistent with this, we find that an expansionary monetary policy shock has a considerably stronger effect on house prices during the recent recovery than during the previous housing boom. At the same time, building permits respond less.
R31|Housing consumption and investment:evidence from shared equity mortgages|Academics have proposed hybrid products with equity features for the financing of housing. In spite of their risk-sharing benefits these products have not become mainstream. This paper studies an important exception, a UK government scheme which in the five years since its inception has provided almost £10 billion of equity financing. The analysis of the origination and prepayment behavior of households who have used the scheme highlights housing affordability constraints. A difference-in-difference analysis of an increase in the maximum government equity limit shows that households took advantage of the increase to buy more expensive properties, and not to reduce their mortgage debt and house price risk exposure. A counterfactual study of homebuyers who, instead of using the equity available, relied on high loan-to-value mortgages shows that their financing choices can be rationalized by an expected rate of house price appreciation of 7.7% per year. We draw general implications for how households approach their house purchase and financing decisions, taking advantage of the fact that the shared equity mortgages that we study allow the separation of the consumption and investment dimensions of housing.
R31|Modelling the distribution of mortgage debt|This paper presents an approach to modelling the flow and the stock of mortgage debt, using loan‑level data. Our approach allows us to consider different macroeconomic scenarios for the housing market, lenders’ and borrowers’ behaviour, and different calibrations of macroprudential policy interventions in a consistent way. This, in turn, allows us to take a forward-looking view about potential risks stemming from the distribution of mortgage debt, as well as assess the impact of potential macroprudential policies in a forward‑looking manner.
R31|Three triggers? Negative equity, income shocks and institutions as determinants of mortgage default|In understanding the determinants of mortgage default, the consensus has moved from an ‘option theory’ model to the ‘double trigger’ hypothesis. Nonetheless, that consensus is based on within-country studies of default. This paper examines the determinants of mortgage default across five European countries, using a large dataset of over 2.3 million active mortgage loans originated between 1991 and 2013 across over 150 banks. The analysis finds support for both elements of the double trigger: while negative equity itself is a relatively small contributor to default, the effect of unemployment, and other variables such as the interest rate, is stronger for those in negative equity. The double trigger, however, varies by country: country-specific factors are found to have a large effect on default rates. For any given level of a loan’s Loan to Value (‘LTV’) ratio, and as LTV changes, borrowers were more sensitive to the interest rate and unemployment in Ireland and Portugal than in the UK or the Netherlands.
R31|The Role of the Federal Housing Administration in the Reverse-Mortgage Market|The Federal Housing Administrationâ€™s Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM) program guarantees repayment on qualifying reverse mortgages made by private lenders. Reverse mortgages let older homeowners borrow money by using the equity in their home as collateral. The borrowed funds can be used to repay an existing mortgage or to fund other expenses. In this report, CBO examines how the HECM program works, how it affects the federal budget, and how various policy changes might reduce costs and risks to the government or to borrowers.
R31|Market Frictions, Arbitrage, and the Capitalization of Amenities|The price-amenity arbitrage is a cornerstone of spatial economics, as the response of land and house prices to shifts in the quality of local amenities and public goods is typically used to reveal households' willingness to pay for amenities. With informational, time, and cash constraints, households' ability to arbitrage across locations with different amenities (demographics, crime, education, housing) depends on their ability to compare locations and to finance the swap of houses. Arbitrageurs with deep pockets and better search and matching technology can take advantage of price dispersions and unexploited trade opportunities. We develop a disaggregated search and matching model of the housing market with endogenously bargained prices, identified on transaction-level data from the universe of deeds for 6,400+ neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan area, matched with school-level test scores and geocoded criminal offenses. Price-amenity gradients reflect preferences and the capitalization of trading opportunities, which are arbitraged away in the frictionless limit. Thus the time-variation in hedonic pricing coefficients partly reflects the time variation in search and credit frictions. Our model is able to explain that, between the peak of the housing boom and its trough, the sign of the price-amenity gradient flipped, due to the decline in trading opportunities in lower-amenity neighborhoods and due to the lower capitalization of trading opportunities in house prices.
R31|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: The limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
R31|The Beveridge curve in the housing market|As opposed to a recent criticism (according to which a model à la Pissarides inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge curve), this preliminary theoretical paper shows that a baseline search-and-matching model is able to take into account the main distinctive features of the housing market, thus generating an upward sloping Beveridge curve.
R31|Expectations During the U.S. Housing Boom: Inferring Beliefs from Actions|We assess the role of price expectations in forming the U.S. housing boom in the mid-2000s by studying the dynamics of vacant properties. When agents anticipate price increases, they amass excess capacity. Thus, housing vacancy discriminates between price movements related to shocks to demand for housing services (low vacancy) and expectation shocks (high vacancy). We implement this idea using a structural vector autoregression with sign restrictions. In the aggregate, expectation shocks are the most important factor explaining the boom, immediately followed by mortgage rate shocks. In the cross-section, expectation shocks are the major factor explaining price movements in the Sand States, which experienced unprecedented booms.
R31|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: the limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|Urban economics and branches of mainstream economics – what we call the “housing as opportunity” school of thought – have been arguing that shortages of affordable housing in dense agglomerations represent a fundamental barrier for economic development. Housing shortages are considered to limit migration into thriving cities, curtailing their expansion potential, generating rising social and spatial inequalities, and inhibiting national growth. According to this dominant view within economics, relaxing zoning and other planning regulations in the most prosperous cities is crucial to unleash the economic potential of cities and nations and to facilitate within-country migration. In this article, we contend that the bulk of the claims of the housing as opportunity approach are fundamentally flawed and lead to simplistic and misguided policy recommendations. We posit that there is no clear and uncontroversial evidence that housing regulation is a principal source of differences in home availability or prices across cities. Blanket changes in zoning are unlikely to increase domestic migration or to increase affordability for lower-income households in prosperous regions. They would, however, increase gentrification within prosperous regions and would not appreciably decrease income inequality. In contrast to the housing models, we argue the basic motors of all these features of the economy are the current geography of employment, wages and skills.
R31|Do low-skilled workers gain from high-tech employment growth? High-technology multipliers, employment and wages in Britain|Do low-skilled workers benefit from the growth of high-technology industries in their local economy? Policymakers invest considerable resources in attracting and developing innovative, high-tech industries, but there is relatively little evidence on the distribution of the benefits. This paper investigates the labour market impact of high-tech growth on low and mid-skilled workers, using data on UK local labour markets from 2009-2015. It shows that high-tech industries – either STEM-intensive ‘high-tech’ or digital economy – have a positive jobs multiplier, with each 10 new high-tech jobs creating around 7 local non-tradeable service jobs, around 6 of which go to low-skilled workers. Employment rates for mid-skilled workers do not increase, but they benefit from higher wages. Yet while low-skilled workers gain from higher employment rates, the jobs are often poorly paid service work, so average wages fall, particularly when increased housing costs are considered.
R31|The Effect of House Prices on Household Borrowing: A New Approach|We investigate the effect of house prices on household borrowing using administrative mortgage data from the United Kingdom and a new empirical approach. The data contain household-level information on house prices and borrowing in a panel of homeowners, who refinance at regular and quasi-exogenous intervals. The data and setting allow us to develop an empirical approach that exploits house price variation coming from the idiosyncratic and exogenous timing of refinance events around the Great Recession. We present two main results. First, there is a clear and robust effect of house prices on borrowing. Second, the effect of house prices on borrowing can be explained largely by collateral effects. We study the collateral channel through a multivariate and nonparametric heterogeneity analysis of proxies for collateral and wealth effects.
R31|Borrowing constraints and location choice - Evidence from the Paris Region| This paper investigates the determinants of residential segregation using a nested logit model to disentangle household preferences for local amenities, for dwelling type and for homeownership. The model is extended to account for unobservable borrowing constraints which might prevent some households from purchasing a dwelling. A counterfactual distribution of socio-demographic characteristics across the Paris region is then built by relaxing those constraints. The comparison of the actual and counterfactual distributions suggests that if their credit constraints were alleviated, households would tend to locate further from Paris. In particular if constraints were relaxed only on the poorest households, they would not be likely to mix with the richest households.
R31|Regional Spillovers in the Hungarian Housing Market: Evidence from a Spatio-Temporal Model|This paper analyses housing market spillovers between Hungarian regions in a small, spatio-temporal model, which features both the house price and housing supply as endogenous variables. The paper estimates both the long-run relationship between housing variables and economic fundamentals, and the short-run adjustment path of the housing market towards the long-run equilibrium. Long-run elasticities are in line with previous studies. The size of spillovers between Hungarian regions is economically meaningful; therefore, region-specific developments such as the recent run-up of Budapest house prices can have significant aggregate effects.
R31|Landlords and Access to Opportunity|Despite being eligible for use in any neighborhood, housing choice vouchers tend to be redeemed in low-opportunity neighborhoods. This paper investigates how landlords contribute to this outcome and how they respond to efforts to change it. We leverage a policy change in Washington, DC, that increased voucher rental payments only in high-rent neighborhoods. Using two waves of a correspondence experiment that bracket the policy change, we show that most opportunity landlords screen out prospective voucher tenants, and we detect no change in average screening behavior after a $450 per month increase in voucher payments. In lease-up data, however, enough landlords do respond to increased payments to equalize the flow of voucher tenants into high- vs. low-rent neighborhoods. Using tax data and listings from a website specializing in subsidized housing, we characterize a group of marginal opportunity landlords who respond to higher payments. Marginal opportunity landlords are relatively rare, list their units near market rates, operate on a small scale, and negatively select into the voucher program based on hard-to-observe differences in unit quality.
R31|The Propagation of Regional Shocks in Housing Markets: Evidence from Oil Price Shocks in Canada|Shocks to the demand for housing that originate in one region may seem important only for that regional housing market. We provide evidence that such shocks can also affect housing markets in other regions. Our analysis focuses on the response of Canadian housing markets to oil price shocks. Oil price shocks constitute an important source of exogenous regional variation in income in Canada because oil production is highly geographically concentrated. We document that, at the national level, real oil price shocks account for 11% of the variability in real house price growth over time. At the regional level, we find that unexpected increases in the real price of oil raise housing demand and real house prices not only in oil-producing regions, but also in other regions. We develop a theoretical model of the propagation of real oil price shocks across regions that helps understand this finding. The model differentiates between oil-producing and non-oil-producing regions and incorporates multiple sectors, trade between provinces, government redistribution, and consumer spending on fuel. We empirically confirm the model prediction that oil price shocks are propagated to housing markets in non-oil-producing regions by the government redistribution of oil revenue and by increased interprovincial trade.
R31|The Marginal Effect of Government Mortgage Guarantees on Homeownership|The U.S. government guarantees a majority of residential mortgages, which is often justified as a means to promote homeownership. In this paper we use property-level data to estimate the effect of government mortgage guarantees on homeownership, by exploiting variation of the conforming loan limits (CLLs) along county borders. We find substantial effects on government guarantees, but find no robust effect on homeownership. This finding suggests that government guarantees could be considerably reduced with modest effects on homeownership, which is relevant for housing finance reform plans that propose to reduce the government’s involvement in the mortgage market by reducing the CLLs.
R31|Second Home Buyers and the Housing Boom and Bust|Record-high second home buying (homeowners acquiring nonprimary residences) was a central feature of the 2000s boom, but the macroeconomic effects remain an open question partly because reliable geographic data is currently unavailable. This paper constructs local data on second home buying by merging credit bureau data with mortgage servicing records. The identification strategy exploits the fact that the vacation share of housing from the 2000 Census is predictive of second home origination shares during the boom years, while also uncorrelated with other boom-bust drivers including proxies for local housing expectations, the use of alternative and PLS mortgages, and supply constraints. Localities with plausibly exogenous higher second home origination shares experienced a more pronounced boom and bust - stronger growth in construction and house prices during the boom, and steeper declines in activity during the recession years. Overall, second home buying could exp lain about 30 and 15 percent of the run-up in construction employment and house prices, respectively, over 2000-2006.
R31|Time-Geographically Weighted Regressions and Residential Property Value Assessment|In this study, we develop and apply a new methodology for obtaining accurate and equitable property value assessments. This methodology adds a time dimension to the Geographically Weighted Regressions (GWR) framework, which we call Time-Geographically Weighted Regressions (TGWR). That is, when generating assessed values, we consider sales that are close in time and space to the designated unit. We think this is an important improvement of GWR since this increases the number of comparable sales that can be used to generate assessed values. Furthermore, it is likely that units that sold at an earlier time but are spatially near the designated unit are likely to be closer in value than units that are sold at a similar time but farther away geographically. This is because location is such an important determinant of house value. We apply this new methodology to sales data for residential properties in 50 municipalities in Connecticut for 1994-2013 and 145 municipalities in Massachusetts for 1987-2012. This allows us to compare results over a long time period and across municipalities in two states. We find that TGWR performs better than OLS with fixed effects and leads to less regressive assessed values than OLS. In many cases, TGWR performs better than GWR that ignores the time dimension. In at least one specification, several suburban and rural towns meet the IAAO Coefficient of Dispersion cutoffs for acceptable accuracy.
R31|The Environmental Cost of Land Use Restrictions|Cities with cleaner power plants and lower energy demand have stricter land use restrictions; these restrictions increase housing prices and disincentivize living in these lower polluting cities. We use a spatial equilibrium model to quantify the effect of land use restrictions on household carbon emissions. Our model features heterogeneous households, cities that vary by power plant technology and the benefits of energy usage, as well as endogenous wages and rents. Relaxing restrictions in California to the national median leads to a 2.3% drop in national carbon emissions. The burden of a carbon tax differs substantially across locations.
R31|A Shortage of Short Sales: Explaining the Underutilization of a Foreclosure Alternative|The Great Recession led to widespread mortgage defaults, with borrowers resorting to both foreclosures and short sales to resolve their defaults. I first quantify the economic impact of foreclosures relative to short sales by comparing the home price implications of both. After accounting for omitted variable bias, I find that homes selling as short sales transact at 9.2% to 10.5% higher prices on average than those that sell after foreclosure. Short sales also exert smaller negative externalities than foreclosures, with one short sale decreasing nearby property values by 1 percentage point less than a foreclosure. So why weren’t short sales more prevalent? These home price benefits did not increase the prevalence of short sales because free rents during foreclosures caused more borrowers to select foreclosures, even though higher advances led servicers to prefer more short sales. In states with longer foreclosure timelines, the benefits from foreclosures increased for borrowers, so short sales were less utilized. I find that one standard deviation increase in the average length of the foreclosure process decreased the short sale share by 0.35 to 0.45 standard deviation. My results suggest that policies that increase the relative attractiveness of short sales could help stabilize distressed housing markets.
R31|Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning|This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a “ticket” price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a “slope” price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighborhood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only.
R31|Do Minimum Wage Increases Benefit Intended Households? Evidence from the Performance of Residential Leases|Prior studies debating the eﬀects of changes to the minimum wage concentrate on impacts on household income and spending or employment. We extend this debate by examining the impact of changes to the minimum wage on expenses associated with shelter, a previously unexplored area. Increases in state minimum wages signiﬁcantly reduce the incidence of renters defaulting on their lease contracts by 1.29 percentage points over three months, relative to similar renters who did not experience an increase in the minimum wage. This represents 25.7% fewer defaults post treatment in treated states. To put this into perspective, a 1% increase in minimum wage translates into a 2.6% decrease in rental default. This evidence is consistent with wage increases having an immediate impact on relaxing renter budget constraints. However, this eﬀect slowly decreases over time as landlords react to wage increases by increasing rents. Our analysis is based on a unique data set that tracks household rental payments.
R31|Owner-Occupied Housing, Inflation, and Monetary Policy| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) affects inflation expectations, real interest rates, and hence market outcomes. After showing that none of the existing treatments of OOH are fit for purpose, we propose a new simplified user cost method with better properties. We then compare empirically eight treatments of OOH. Our preferred approach pushes up the CPI during housing booms. We relate our findings to the following macroeconomic debates: the disinflation puzzle, leaning against the wind, and the effectiveness of monetary policy in the presence of secular stagnation, the zero lower bound, and globalization.
R31|How Should We Measure City Size? Theory and Evidence Within and Across Rich and Poor Countries|It is obvious that holding city population constant, differences in cities across the world are enormous. Urban giants in poor countries are not large using measures such as land area, interior space or value of output. These differences are easily reconciled mathematically as population is the product of land area, structure space per unit land (i.e., heights), and population per unit interior space (i.e., crowding). The first two are far larger in the cities of developed countries while the latter is larger for the cities of developing countries. In order to study sources of diversity among cities with similar population, we construct a version of the standard urban model (SUM) that yields the prediction that the elasticity of city size with respect to income could be similar within both developing countries and developed countries. However, differences in income and urban technology can explain the physical differences between the cities of developed countries and developing countries. Second, using a variety of newly merged data sets, the predictions of the SUM for similarities and differences of cities in developed and developing countries are tested. The findings suggest that population is a sufficient statistic to characterize city differences among cities within the same country, not across countries.
R31|Wohnungsmarkt und Wohnungspolitik in Deutschland: Situation und Optionen|Die Situation am deutschen Wohnungsmarkt ist aktuell Gegenstand einer gesellschaftlichen Diskussion. Ein deutlicher Nachfrageüberhang, der sich vorwiegend â€“ aber nicht ausschließlich â€“ auf urbane Räume konzentriert, hat in den letzten Jahren zu einem deutlichen Preisanstieg sowohl bei den Immobilien als auch bei den Mieten geführt. Da die Mehrheit der Menschen in Deutschland zur Miete wohnt, betrifft diese Entwicklung eine große Gruppe. Mit den Zielen den Ausgleich am Wohnungsmarkt zu befördern und Wohnraum sozialverträglich, d.h. allen Bevölkerungsgruppen unter Berücksichtigung der Leistungsfähigkeit, zugänglich zu machen, gibt es in Deutschland eine Reihe wohnungspolitischer Maßnahmen und Eingriffe. Die Passgenauigkeit dieser Interventionen ist vor dem Hintergrund der Wohnungsmarktentwicklung der letzten Jahre kritisch zu überprüfen. Mit dem vorliegenden Aufsatz soll eine Bestandaufnahme über die Entwicklung und gegenwärtige Situation am Wohnungsmarkt gegeben werden. Hierbei liegt der Fokus zum einen auf der Herausarbeitung angebots- und nachfrageseitiger Ursachen, zum anderen werden die wesentlichen wohnungspolitischen Instrumente (Subventionen, Steuern, Preiseingriffe) im Hinblick auf Ziele und Wirkungen erläutert. Aufbauend auf dieser Bestandsaufnahme werden acht wohnungs(markt)politische Implikationen abgeleitet und zur Diskussion gestellt.
R31|Mortgage risk since 1990|This paper provides a comprehensive account of the evolution of default risk for newly originated home purchase loans since 1990. We bring together several data sources to produce this history, including loan-level data for the entire GSE book. We use these data to track a large number of loan characteristics and a summary measure of risk, the stressed default rate. Among the many results in the paper, we show that mortgage risk had already risen in the 1990s, planting the seeds of the financial crisis well before the actual event. Our results also cast doubt on explanations of the crisis that focus on low-credit-score borrowers.
R31|Contagion between Stock and Real Estate Markets: International Evidence from a Local Gaussian Correlation Approach|In this paper, we analyze contagion over the daily period of January 1, 1998 to September 13, 2018 between Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) and the equity markets of nineteen countries, which are at their different stages of development in terms of the REITs market. For our purpose, we use the local Gaussian correlation approach during the dot-com, global financial, European sovereign debt crises, and the more recent period involving the Brexit in the UK. In general, we find strong evidence of contagion between equities and REITs of not only matured and established markets, but also in economies with an emerging REITs sector, especially during the global financial and sovereign debt crises. Further, when we considered contagion across REITs of the US and the other countries, and between US REITs and equities of the remaining eighteen countries, a similar pattern emerges. Our results have important implications for investors and policymakers alike.
R31|Is the Housing Market in the United States Really Weakly-Efficient?|We analyze the directional predictability of a daily dataset of aggregate and regional (10 major metropolitan cities) housing markets of the United States using the quantilogram – a model-free procedure. We overwhelmingly reject the weak-form of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), which has been derived thus far by the extant literature based on unit root tests and long-memory models.
R31|The Role of Real Estate Uncertainty in Predicting US Home Sales Growth: Evidence from a Quantiles-Based Bayesian Model Averaging Approach|This paper investigates the role of real estate-specific uncertainty in predicting the conditional distribution of US home sales growth over the monthly period of 1970:07 to 2017:12, based on Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) to account for model uncertainty. After controlling for standard predictors of home sales (housing price, mortgage rate, personal disposable income, unemployment rate, building permits, and housing starts), and macroeconomic and financial uncertainties, our results from the quantile BMA (QBMA) model show that real estate uncertainty has predictive content for the lower and upper quantiles of the conditional distribution of home sales growth.
R31|Effect of Uncertainty on U.S. Stock Returns and Volatility: Evidence from Over Eighty Years of High-Frequency Data|In this paper, we analyse the asymmetric impact of financial uncertainty shocks on stock returns and volatility of the U.S. equity market over the period of 18th March, 1936 to 30th November, 2016, by controlling for impact of monetary policy shocks and recessions. We find that positive growth rates of uncertainty reduce stock returns and increases volatility, while, negative growth rates of uncertainty primarily reduce stock market variance. Further, the impact of changes in uncertainty on volatility is found to be asymmetric in the statistical sense. A rolling window estimation over the period of 30th June, 1954 to 30th November, 2016, shows that there is significant time variation in the impact of uncertainty, though the direction of impact largely confirms with the static case. Our study provides new evidence that the impact of financial uncertainty on the U.S. equity markets is intuitively consistent even in the historical and high-frequency context.
R31|How do Housing Returns in Emerging Countries Respond to Oil Shocks? A MIDAS Touch|In this study, we utilize the recent oil shock data of Baumeister and Hamilton (2019) to analyze how housing returns in China, India and Russia respond to different oil shocks. Given the available data for the relevant variables, the MIDAS approach which helps circumvent aggregation problem in the estimation process is employed. We also extend the MIDAS framework to account for nonlinearities in the model. Expectedly, the housing returns of the countries considered respond differently to the variants of oil shocks. More specifically, we find that the housing returns of India and China which are net oil-importing countries do not seem to possess oil risk hedging characteristics albeit with the converse for Russia which is a major net oil-exporter. We also find that modeling with the MIDAS framework offers better predictability than other variants with uniform frequency.
R31|Testing the White Noise Hypothesis in High-Frequency Housing Returns of the United States|In the pure time-series sense, weak-form of efficiency of the housing market would imply unpredictability of housing returns. Given this, utilizing a daily dataset of aggregate housing market returns of the United States, we test whether housing market returns are white noise using the blockwise wild bootstrap in a rolling-window framework. We investigate the dynamic evolution of housing market efficiency and find that the white noise hypothesis is accepted in most windows associated with non-crisis periods. However, for some periods before the burst of the housing market bubbles, and during the subprime mortgage crisis, European sovereign debt crisis and the Brexit, the white noise hypothesis is rejected, indicating that the housing market is inefficient in periods of turbulence. Our results have important implications for economic agents.
R31|Effects of Conventional and Unconventional Monetary Policy Shocks on Housing Prices in the United States: The Role of Sentiment|In this paper, we use a Quantile Structural Vector Autoregressive (QSVAR) model, estimated over the quarterly period of 1975:Q3 to 2017:Q3, to analyze whether the impact of monetary policy shocks on real housing returns in the United States is contingent on the initial state of housing market sentiment. We find that contractionary monetary policy reduces real housing returns more strongly when the market is characterized by optimism rather than pessimism, with this effect being more pronounced under unconventional monetary policy decisions. Further robustness checks confirm our results. Our findings highlight the role in sentiments in driving the policy effectiveness and thus, have important implications for policy decisions.
R31|What can Fifty-Two Collateralizable Wealth Measures tell us about Future Housing Market Returns? Evidence from U.S. State-Level Data|"We use a novel U.S. state-level database to evaluate the role of housing wealth as a provider of collateral services. First, we estimate the cointegrating relationship between housing wealth and labour income for all 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia (D.C.), and overall U.S. We do not find evidence of a structural break in such link due to the presence of economic recessions or financial crises. Then, we assess the predictive ability of the housing wealth-to-income ratios (labelled by hwy) for state-level future real housing returns. We uncover: (i) positive estimates for the elasticity of housing wealth with respect to labour income, which are also largely heterogeneous across U.S. states; and (ii) a negative link between the housing wealth-to-income ratios and future housing returns, albeit the forecasting power of hwy also varies considerably across states. We conclude that country-level regressions typically ""mask"" this diversity of features surrounding the usefulness of housing in collateral provision and unfavourable labour income shock smoothing that state-level frameworks are able to recover."
R31|A Model of the Australian Housing Market|We build an empirical model of the Australian housing market that quantifies interrelationships between construction, vacancies, rents and prices. We find that low interest rates (partly reflecting lower world long-term rates) explain much of the rapid growth in housing prices and construction over the past few years. Another demand factor, high immigration, also helps explain the tight housing market and rapid growth in rents in the late 2000s. A large part of the effect of interest rates on dwelling investment, and hence GDP, works through housing prices.
R31|Rural-Urban Migration, Structural Transformation, and Housing Markets in China|This paper explores the contribution of the structural transformation and urbanization process in the housing market in China. City migration flows combined with an inelastic land supply, due to entry restrictions, has raised house prices. This issue is examined using a multi-sector dynamic general-equilibrium model with migration and housing market. Our quantitative findings suggest that this process accounts for about 80 percent of urban housing prices. This mechanism remains valid in an extension calibrated to the two largest cities where housing booms have been particularly noticeable. Overall, supply factors and productivity account for most of the housing price growth.
R31|The Influence Of Short-Term Rental On Rental Housing Prices In Prague|"Prague has for a long time been struggling with the problem of constantly increasing housing prices and their lack. Offer available apartments is extremely low and is manifested by significant price growth and also the limited supply of apartments for sale and rent. One of the factors influencing the price of flats in Prague may be short-term rentals. Today there is an increasing number of flats in the total offer of short-term rentals and the number of hosts with more than one offer is also rising. Airbnb will deviate from its original idea of sharing ""extra beds""."
R31|Modelling Housing Market and Housing Price Dynamics in Croatia|Since the beginning of this century, the Croatian housing market has passed through various stages of development. Roughly, trends in this housing market could be observed through three different phases. The first period encompasses the first eight years of this century and is characterized by stable and positive movements of supply and demand indicators. The year 2008 represents the turning point towards negative trends on the Croatian housing market. This was the beginning of a crisis which lasted seven years. During this period, the demand for housing units has fallen dramatically and supply of new housing units has grown at low rates. As a result of such market developments, housing prices have decreased. Negative trends persist until 2015, when stable increase of supply indicators is perceived. Thereafter, demand side of the market starts to recover, along with housing prices which begin to rise.This research represents an attempt to identify the factors that have influenced the mentioned developments on the Croatian housing market. The significance of factors which are included in analysis is tested within the multiple regression framework. Special emphasis is placed on modelling housing prices dynamics. The results indicate that there are certain specificities of the Croatian housing market. For example, demand cannot be explained well by standard housing demand determinants. The low significance of the standard factors is even more pronounced in modelling supply side of the market. When observing the significance of housing prices in the supply and demand equations, the results show that lagged prices in both equations are statistically significant. Therefore, it can be concluded that expectations on housing market in Croatia are adaptive. Finally, supply and demand elasticities are observed as their comparison can potentially help in explaining cyclic movements in the housing market.
R31|Buy to let. Investment buyers in a housing search model|In this paper, I explore and explain how buy-to-let investors affect housing price dynamics. The impact of buy-to-let investors on the housing market is much discussed by policy makers, but previously not considered in the literature. I develop a structural search model that allows housing owners to buy second houses to let out, and let rents be determined endogenously. To motivate the model, I present empirical evidence from the city of Oslo showing that a significant share of buyers are buy-to-let investors, and both rents and the share of second house buyers are positively correlated with housing prices. The model introduces two mechanisms that affect volatility compared to a model with no landlords and constant rents. First, the endogenous correlation of rents and housing prices makes it attractive for non-owners to buy in “hot” markets, to avoid paying high rents. Second, the increased incentives to become landlords in high rent periods further increase the number of buyers and amplify the effect of high rents on housing prices and transaction volumes. The model is calibrated using data from Oslo, and is able to match quantitatively the high investor share and housing price volatility of a housing boom.
R31|UK House Prices – Connectedness or Ripple Effect?|Using nonlinear causality and impulse response we show bidirectional dependence between the London house prices and other UK regions’ house prices except for Northern Ireland and Wales. This result has important implications for policy makers and investors.
R31|Convergence in House Prices: Cross-Regional Evidence for Turkey|This paper analyzes the long-run convergence of regional house prices in Turkey. Using a non-linear time-varying factor model and quarterly house price data for the period between 2010 and 2018, we find that house prices do not converge across the 26 regions. The results reveal that the regions can be grouped into seven convergence clubs and one divergent club, confirming the heterogeneity and complexity of the Turkish housing market. These results also imply the existence of multiple steady states in the housing market. These outcomes will be beneficial to home buyers/sellers, investors, regulators and policymakers, who are interested in analyzing the dynamic interlinkages among house prices and the effects of shocks originating from the regional housing markets.
R31|Debt and Taxes: The Sale-Rent Housing Price Ratio in Dublin since 1945|The recent Great Recession highlights the importance of housing to the broader economy, yet few reliable long-run series exist for sale and rental prices of housing. Using hedonic methods, frequency conversion techniques, and a detailed dataset of over one million sale and rental listings from newspapers and online, we construct new quarterly indices of sale and rental prices for Dublin, Ireland for the period starting in 1945 and an annual panel for six areas of the city over the same period. The series show four major market cycles, as well as three distinct phases for housing yield, with downward shifts in the early 1970s and again in the late 1990s. There is some evidence of rents converging across markets within the city but sale prices have diverged over the same period. An error-correction econometric analysis confirms the predictions of economic theory, that credit conditions in the credit market and user cost drive changes in the yield over time.
R31|The cyclical behavior of the Beveridge Curve in the housing market|This paper develops a business cycle model of the housing market with search frictions and entry of both buyers and sellers. The housing market exhibits a well-established cyclical component, which features three stylized facts: prices move in the same direction as sales and the number of houses for sale, but opposite to the time it takes to sell a house. These stylized facts imply that in the data housing vacancies and the number of buyers are positively correlated, i.e. that the Beveridge Curve is upward sloping. A baseline search and matching model of the housing market is unable to match these stylized facts because it inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge Curve. With free entry of both buyers and sellers, our model reproduces the positive correlation between prices, sales and vacancies, and matches the stylized facts qualitatively and quantitatively.
R31|The impact of Airbnb on residential property values and rents: evidence from Portugal|Short-term rentals have facilitated the upraise trend in tourism growth in several cities around the world. However, concerns for the negative effects that such home-sharing platforms may have on the housing market and traditional markets have driven community groups and housing advocates to intensely react against them. Whether or not shortterm rentals increase housing prices and rents for local residents is an empirical question. We quantify the causal effects of Airbnb's short-term rentals on urban housing affordability in Portugal by estimating quarterly housing rents and prices as a function of Airbnb concentration. We take advantage of the 2014 regulatory reform and employ a difference-in-differences (DiD) empirical strategy. We estimate an overall increase in property values of 34% and 10.9% for rents due to the short-term lease regulatory reform. We also find that these effects are particularly localized to the historical centers and areas attractive to tourists in the cities of Lisbon and Porto. A better understanding of the effects of shortterm home rentals on housing markets and of the magnitude of its impact on residential property prices and rents are crucial information to determine whether it needs to be regulated and how proper regulation should be designed. JEL codes: R21, R31, Z32
R31|Owner Occupied Housing in the CPI and its Impact on Monetary Policy during Housing Booms and Busts| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) is probably the most important unresolved issue in inflation measurement. How -- and whether -- it is included in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) affects inflation expectations, the measured level of real interest rates, and the behavior of governments, central banks and market participants. We show that none of the existing treatments of OOH are fit for purpose. Hence we propose a new simplified user cost method with better properties. Using a micro-level dataset, we then compare the empirical behavior of eight different treatments of OOH. Our preferred user cost approach pushes up the CPI during housing booms (by 2 percentage points or more). Our findings relate to the following important debates in macroeconomics: the behavior of the Phillips curve in the US during the global financial crisis, and the response of monetary policy to housing booms, secular stagnation, and globalization.
R31|Housing markets, expectation formation and interest rates|Based on a behavioral stock-flow housing market model in which the expectation formation behavior of boundedly rational and heterogeneous investors may generate endogenous boom-bust cycles, we explore whether central banks can stabilize housing markets via the interest rate. Using a mix of analytical and numerical tools, we find that the ability of central banks to tame housing markets by increasing the base (target) interest rate, thereby softening the demand pressure on house prices, is rather limited. However, central banks can greatly improve the stability of housing markets by following an interest rate rule that adjusts the interest rate with respect to mispricing in the housing market.
R31|Monetary policy, housing, and collateral constraints|House-purchasing decisions and the possibility of existing homeowners to tap into their housing equity depend decisively on prevailing loan-to-value (LTV) ratios in mortgage markets with borrowing constrained households. Utilizing a smooth transition local projection (STLP) approach, I show that monetary policy shocks in the U.S. evoke stronger reactions in the housing sector in times of high LTV ratios, which, through changes in mortgage lending and mortgage equity withdrawals (MEWs), translate into larger effects of consumption. This result is more pronounced for contractionary shocks, in line with occasionally binding constraints. The strong procyclicality of LTV ratios reconciles these findings with past evidence on a less powerful transmission of monetary policy during recessions.
R31|Who benefits from using property taxes to finance a labor tax wedge reduction?|We use a New Keynesian DSGE model with a rental housing market to evaluate how financing a labor tax wedge reduction through higher property taxation affects the real economy and welfare. We find that a labor tax wedge reduction generates favorable macroeconomic effects and improves international competitiveness, independent of the financing instrument used. Even though it negatively affects the housing market, property acquisition taxation outperforms all other instruments as the financing instrument in terms of welfare. This finding is the result of allowing households to decide whether to buy or to rent housing services and of the fact that, in this situation, they shift from purchasing to renting more housing services. Abandoning tax credit on mortgage interest payments effectively harms borrowers.
R31|A novel housing price misalignment indicator for Germany|From 2014 until present, housing prices in Germany have been rising faster than consumer prices in all quarters except one, raising concerns about an excessive over-heating of the housing market. To assess the vulnerability of the German housing market to a future realignment of prices or even a housing bust, this paper develops a housing price misalignment indicator that is composed of seven indicators, which are commonly associated with the fundamental value of residential property. An empirical application to the most recent data suggests that the German housing market exhibits an overvaluation of approximately 11%, where interest rate risk and a relatively advanced stage of the housing cycle are identified as the main factors fueling these imbalances, while a rather solid debt-servicing capacity mitigates these imbalances since end-2009.
R31|Chancen und Risiken von seriellem und modularem Bauen am Beispiel des Segments Mikro-Apartments als neuen Trend der Immobilienwirtschaft|Für die in den Medien intensiv diskutierte bestehende Wohnungsnot, die nicht mehr ausschließlich in den deutschen Metropolregionen und Ballungszentren eine Herausforderung darstellt, wurde bislang noch kein erfolgsbringender Lösungsweg konkretisiert. Fehlendes Bauland, steigende Baupreise, zu niedrige Fertigstellungszahlen sowie der steigende Bedarf nach Einzelwohnraum sind nur einige Beispiele für das Wohnungsdefizit und die stetig ansteigenden Preise für Kauf- und Mietimmobilien. Sowohl die wirtschaftsstarken Großstädte als auch die Wohnungspolitik stehen vor der Aufgabe, schnell und kostengünstig neuen Wohnraum zu schaffen, der auch für Haushalte mit geringerem Einkommen bezahlbar ist. Dazu soll in der vorliegenden Arbeit untersucht werden, ob bzw. inwieweit die modulare und serielle Bauweise von Mikro-Apartments eine zukunftsorientierte Form des Wohnungsbaus darstellen und ob diese Bauweise als Lösungsweg für die Wohnungsnot in Deutschland dienen kann.
R31|Mieten, Modernisierung und Mieterstruktur - Vermietergruppen in Großstädten im Vergleich: Eine Analyse auf Basis des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels|Angesichts stetig steigender Mieten in den Großstädten stehen zunehmend Vermieter im Fokus öffentlicher und politischer Diskussionen. Selbst eine Enteignung großer privater Wohnungsgesellschaften in Berlin wird mittlerweile von einer Bürgerinitiative gefordert. Durch die Überführung der Unternehmen in staatliches Eigentum erwarten sich die Initiatoren geringere Mietpreisdynamiken und weniger kostentreibende Modernisierungen. In dieser Studie, die auf Daten des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels beruht, wurden Vermietergruppen in den Großstädten mit mehr als 500.000 Einwohnern miteinander verglichen. Bezogen auf den subjektiven Renovierungsbedarf und das Modernisierungsverhalten sind keine wesentlichen Unterschiede zwischen kommunalen, genossenschaftlichen und privaten Wohnungen erkennbar. Sowohl bei kommunalen als auch privaten Wohnungsgesellschaften sehen rund 40 Prozent der Mieter Handlungsbedarf, wobei 10 Prozent der Mieter kommunaler Wohnungsgesellschaften ihre Wohnungen sogar als vollständig renovierungsbedürftig ansehen - deutlich mehr als bei den anderen Wohnungsgesellschaften. Vergleichbar ist auch die Zahl der durchgeführten Modernisierungen, und auch bezüglich der Zufriedenheit der Mieter gibt es kaum Unterschiede. Lediglich am aktuellen Rand hat die Zufriedenheit der Mieter kommunaler Wohnungen etwas zugenommen, bei den übrigen Vermietergruppen sind die Werte seit 2013 relativ konstant. Unterschiede gibt es aber bei der Mietpreisdynamik. Während die Mieten in kommunalen Wohnungen seit 2013 kaum und bei Genossenschaften sehr moderat gestiegen sind, gab es starke Mietpreiszuwächse bei privaten Eigentümern und vor allem Wohnungsunternehmen. Private Vermieter reagieren daher stärker auf die anhaltende Wohnungsknappheit und die daraus resultierende stärkere Konkurrenz um Wohnungen. Aus dieser Perspektive ist es verständlich, dass Mieter sich von einem kommunalen / öffentlichen Eigentümer ein geringeres Mietpreiswachstum versprechen. Aus Sicht der Gesellschaft sind mit unterlassenen Mietpreissteigerungen aber Einnahmeverluste verbunden, was u. a. die Finanzierung von Sozialprogrammen oder Infrastruktur erschwert. Sozialpolitisch ist es daher wichtig zu prüfen, wer die Nutznießer sind. Im Fall der privaten Wohnungsunternehmen zeigt sich, dass 57 Prozent der Mieter über mehr als 80 Prozent des Median-Einkommens verfügen und 44 Prozent sogar mehr als 100 Prozent. Die unterlassenen Mietsteigerungen würden damit zu einem wesentlichen Teil Haushalten zu Gute kommen, die ansonsten keinen Rechtsanspruch und auch keinen Bedarf an staatlicher Unterstützung haben. Berücksichtigt man darüber hinaus die hohen Kosten einer Enteignung bzw. die Signalwirkung einer Enteignung ohne vollständige Kompensation, ist von einer Enteignung privater Wohnungsgesellschaften dringend abzuraten.
R31|Rent control and rental prices: High expectations, high effectiveness?|This paper evaluates the rent control policy implemented in Germany in 2015. Like many countries around the world, German cities and metropolitan areas have experienced a strong increase in rental prices during the last decade. In response, the politicians aimed to dampen the rise in rental prices by limiting the landlords' freedom to increase rents for new contracts. To that end, the rent control was introduced. To evaluate the effectiveness of the rent control with respect to rental prices, we take advantage of its restricted scope of application. First, it is applied only in a selected number of municipalities, thereby generating regional variation. Second, the condition of rental objects generates an additional dimension of variation since new and modernised objects are exempt from rent control. Based on data for rental offers in Germany, we apply a triple-differences framework with region-specific time trends as well as flat type-specific ones. Despite the high political expectations, our estimates indicate that the German rent control dampens rental price growth by only 2.5 %. This effect varies across object characteristics and seems to be larger for lower-quality, smaller-sized dwellings and in the lower price segment. Nevertheless, the application of an event-study indicates that these effects are not persistent over time.
R31|Rent control and rental prices: High expectations, high effectiveness?|This paper evaluates the rent control policy implemented in Germany in 2015. Like many countries around the world, German cities and metropolitan areas have experienced a strong increase in rental prices during the last decade. In response, the politicians aimed to dampen the rise in rental prices by limiting the landlords' freedom to increase rents for new contracts. To that end, the rent control was introduced. To evaluate the effectiveness of the rent control with respect to rental prices, we take advantage of its restricted scope of application. First, it is applied only in a selected number of municipalities, thereby generating regional variation. Second, the condition of rental objects generates an additional dimension of variation since new and modernised objects are exempt from rent control. Based on data for rental offers in Germany, we apply a triple-difference framework with regionspecific time trends as well as flat type-specific ones. Despite the high political expectations, our estimates indicate that the German rent control dampens rental price by only 2.5%. This effect varies across object characteristics and seems to be larger for lower-quality dwellings and in the lower price segment. Nevertheless, the application of an event-study indicates that these effects are not persistent over time.
R31|Entrepreneurial finance, home equity, and monetary policy|We model entrepreneurial finance using a combination of fiat money, traditional bank loans, and home equity loans. The banking sector is over-the- counter, where bargaining determines the pass-through from the nominal interest rate to the bank lending rate, characterizing the transmission channel of monetary policy. The results show that the strength of this channel depends on the combination of nominal and real assets used to finance investments, and thus declines in the extent to which housing is accepted as collateral. A calibration to the U.S. economy supports the theoretical results and provides novel insights on entrepreneurial finance between 2000 and 2016.
R31|Do short-term rental platforms affect housing markets? Evidence from Airbnb in Barcelona|In this paper, we assess the impact of the arrival and expansion of Airbnb on housing rents and prices in the city of Barcelona. Examining highly detailed data on rents and both transaction and posted prices, we use several econometric approaches that exploit the exact timing and geography of Airbnb activity in the city. These include i) panel fixed-effects models with neighborhood-specific time trends, ii) an instrumental variable shift-share approach in which tourist amenities predict where Airbnb listings will locate and Google searches predict when listings appear, and iii) event-study designs. For the average neighborhood in terms of Airbnb activity, our preferred results imply that rents have increased by 1.9%, while transaction (posted) prices have increased by 5.3% (3.7%). The estimated impact in neighborhoods with high Airbnb activity is substantial. For neighborhoods in the top decile of Airbnb activity distribution, rents are estimated to have increased by 7%, while increases in transaction (posted) prices are estimated at 19% (14%).
R31|Search frictions, housing prices and growth|Rising house prices have a positive impact on real GDP through the consumption effect and the construction of new houses (housing investment). Basically, the strength of this positive effect relies on a large share of homeowners (especially regarding the consumption effect). At the same time, however, a greater share of homeowners could encourage unemployment (the so-called “Oswald hypothesis”), thus damaging economic growth. This theoretical paper includes the link between housing tenure and job-search intensity in the relation between housing prices and growth. The main finding of this work is that homeownership may either reinforce or resize the effect of housing prices on economic growth.
R31|Did the Post-1986 Decline in the Homeownership Rate Benefit the New Zealand Labour Market? A Spatial-Econometric Exploration|The proportion of New Zealand households living in owner-occupied dwellings has declined steadily since the early 1990s. The unemployment rate declined steadily as well, except for upward shifts due to the late 1990s Asian Financial Crisis and the Global Financial Crisis a decade later. Research initiated by Andrew Oswald in the 1990s posits that declining homeownership and declining unemployment are linked and that the causality runs from high homeownership leading to high unemployment. The international empirical evidence for this hypothesis is rather mixed. In this paper we revisit the issue with New Zealand census data for commuting-defined labour market areas from 1986 until 2013. Allowing for spatial spillovers in our data, we apply a general nesting spatial econometric model. We also consider the potentially different impacts of freehold and mortgaged homeownership. Generally, the evidence that a declining homeownership rate contributes to a lower unemployment is statistically fragile, but a greater prevalence of freehold ownership and mortgaged ownership below the mean across labour market areas do have small upward effects on a labour market area’s unemployment rate.
R31|Bargaing power in apartment sales in Corsica:A latent class approach|This paper adds to the literature by extending the bargaining model of Harding, Rosenthal, and Sirmans (2003) to a latent class framework. We examine data on apartment sales in Corsica over the period 2006to 2016. Our results indicate that the Corsican housing market has two distinct segments and that bargaining power of buyers and sellers is not the same in these two segments.In particular,we find that the French mainlanders have morebargaining power when sellingin one market segment but they experience adecrease in bargaining power when buying in the other segment. Corsican buyers exhibit significant bargaining power in both sub-markets but local sellers exhibit significant bargaining power in just one segmentof the market.Auxiliary regressions indicate that the apartments associated with the first segment are more spacious, less likely to be new, more likely to have a garden, and typically have longer travel times to any of the local amenities like doctors, pharmacies and the downtown area. From this we conclude that apartments in one segment are more likely to be rural and at a greater distance from the coastcompared to the other segment.
R31|Time, space and hedonic prediction accuracy evidence from the Corsican apartment market|In this study, we propose a hedonic housing model to address spa- tial and temporal latent structures simultaneously. With the development of spatial econometrics and spatial statistics, economists can now better assess the impact of spatial correlation on house prices. How- ever, the simultaneous handling of spatial and temporal correlation is still under development. Since spatial econometric models are limited to account for two kinds of cor- relation simultaneously, we propose using a hierarchical spatiotemporal model from spatial statistics. Based on a Bayesian framework and a stochastic par- tial differential equation (SPDE) approach, the estimation is carried out via INLA. We then perform an empirical study on apartment transaction prices in Corsica (France) using the proposed model. The empirical results demonstrate that the prediction performance of the hierarchical spatiotemporal model is the best among all candidate models. Moreover, the hedonic housing estimates are affected by spatial effects and temporal effects. Ignoring these effects could result in serious forecasting issues.
R31|Drought and Property Prices: Empirical Evidence from Iran|This study demonstrates an economic consequence of climate change and water crises in Iran. It examines the effect of drought on housing prices, residential land prices, and housing rents in Iran. Using data from provinces of Iran from 1993 to 2015 and applying static and dynamic panel fixed effects estimators, we find evidence that an increase in the balance of water (reducing the severity of drought) within provinces has a positive effect on property prices. Our results have important implications for Iranian policymakers and property investors.
R31|Revisiting the Relationship between Financial Wealth, Housing Wealth, and Consumption: A Panel Analysis for the U.S|Based on the seminal paper of Case, Quigley and Shiller (2013), we investigate the effects of financial and housing wealth on consumption. Using quarterly data from 1975 to 2016, for all States of U.S. economy, and a different methodology in measuring wealth, we report relatively greater financial effects than housing effects on consumption. Specifically, in our basic utilized model, the calculated elasticity for financial wealth is 0.060, while for housing is 0.045. The results are not in agreement with the ones obtained by Case, Quigley and Shiller. In an attempt to investigate the disparity, we proceed by incorporating the introduction of the Tax Reform Act in 1986, which increased incentives for owner-occupied housing investments. Finally, due to distributional factors at work, and taking into account the pronounced uneven distribution of wealth we investigate the effects of wealth for 8 states that include the Metropolitan areas comprising of the well-known Case-Shiller 10-City Composite Index. Now the housing effect on consumption is much stronger and larger than the financial effect. Additionally, we forecast the consumption changes at the time of the high rise and large drops in house prices for these states. Forecasts showed a recession from the fall of Lehman Brothers until the fourth quarter of 2011. These forecasts were not verified. Probably, the new techniques used by politics played an important role. We also find that extreme behaviors cannot be predicted.
R31|Hedonic house price indices for Malta: A mortgage-based approach|This paper makes use of a novel dataset derived from mortgage contracts granted by the major lending institutions in Malta. This contains information about house prices and a number of important property characteristics. Together with geographic and sociodemographic variables, this information allows the computation of a range of hedonic house price indices for Malta for the period 2010-2017. In general we find that growth in house prices remained relatively muted over the period 2011-2014, ranging between 1.0% and 2.0%. House prices picked-up markedly after 2015, averaging between 4.5% and 7.5%. In particular, house price growth peaked in 2017, at between 10.1% and 11.0%. Although the general evolution of the hedonic house price indices calculated in this study are broadly similar to the indices computed by the contract-based index produced by the National Statistics Office and the advertised-based index produced by the Central Bank of Malta, there are some divergences. These differences can be attributed to changes in property characteristics.
R31|Hedonic house price indices for Malta: A mortgage-based approach|This paper makes use of a novel dataset derived from mortgage contracts granted by the major lending institutions in Malta. This contains information about house prices and a number of important property characteristics. Together with geographic and sociodemographic variables, this information allows the computation of a range of hedonic house price indices for Malta for the period 2010-2017. In general we find that growth in house prices remained relatively muted over the period 2011-2014, ranging between 1.0% and 2.0%. House prices picked-up markedly after 2015, averaging between 4.5% and 7.5%. In particular, house price growth peaked in 2017, at between 10.1% and 11.0%. Although the general evolution of the hedonic house price indices calculated in this study are broadly similar to the indices computed by the contract-based index produced by the National Statistics Office and the advertised-based index produced by the Central Bank of Malta, there are some divergences. These differences can be attributed to changes in property characteristics.
R31|Does homeownership hinder labor market activity? Evidence from housing privatization and restitution in Brno|We study the effects of homeownership on labor force participation and unemployment. We exploit housing privatization and restitution after the fall of communism as a source exogenous assignment of homeowner/renter status, using a unique dataset from the city of Brno, Czech Republic. We do not find any evidence of homeownership hindering labor force participation. In fact, our estimates suggest that homeownership reduces unemployment by four to six percentage points. Homeownership appears to decrease the risk of unemployment by about one third to one half, relative to renters. The estimated effects on labor force participation are systematically around zero.
R31|Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning|"This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a \ticket"" price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a \slope"" price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighbor- hood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non-marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only."
R31|Market Frictions, Arbitrage, and the Capitalization of Amenities|The price-amenity arbitrage is a cornerstone of spatial economics, as the response of land and house prices to shifts in the quality of local amenities and public goods is typically used to reveal households' willingness to pay for amenities. With informational, time, and cash constraints, households' ability to arbitrage across locations with different amenities (demographics, crime, education, housing) depends on their ability to compare locations and to finance the swap of houses. Arbitrageurs with deep pockets and better search and matching technology can take advantage of price dispersions and unexploited trade opportunities. We develop a disaggregated search and matching model of the housing market with endogenously bargained prices, identified on transaction-level data from the universe of deeds for 6,400+ neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan area, matched with school-level test scores and geocoded criminal offenses. Price-amenity gradients reflect preferences and the capitalization of trading opportunities, which are arbitraged away in the frictionless limit. Thus the time-variation in hedonic pricing coefficients partly reflects the time variation in search and credit frictions. Our model is able to explain that, between the peak of the housing boom and its trough, the sign of the price-amenity gradient flipped, due to the decline in trading opportunities in lower-amenity neighborhoods and due to the lower capitalization of trading opportunities in house prices.
R31|Expectations During the U.S. Housing Boom: Inferring Beliefs from Actions|We assess the role of price expectations in forming the U.S. housing boom in the mid-2000s by studying the dynamics of vacant properties. When agents anticipate price increases, they amass excess capacity. Thus, housing vacancy discriminates between price movements related to shocks to demand for housing services (low vacancy) and expectation shocks (high vacancy). We implement this idea using a structural vector autoregression with sign restrictions. In the aggregate, expectation shocks are the most important factor explaining the boom, immediately followed by mortgage rate shocks. In the cross-section, expectation shocks are the major factor explaining price movements in the Sand States, which experienced unprecedented booms.
R31|Racial Segregation in Housing Markets and the Erosion of Black Wealth|Housing is the most important asset for the vast majority of American households and a key driver of racial disparities in wealth. This paper studies how residential segregation by race served to erode black wealth. Using a novel sample of matched addresses from prewar American cities, we find that rental prices and occupancy soared by about 40 percent in blocks that transitioned from all white to majority black. However, home values fell on average by 10 percent over the first decade of racial transition and by a staggering 50 percent in major African American destinations such as Chicago, Philadelphia, and Detroit. These findings suggest that, because of the segregated housing market, black families faced dual barriers to wealth accumulation: they paid more in rent for similar housing while the homes they were able to purchase rapidly declined in value.
R31|Does Gentrification Displace Poor Children? New Evidence from New York City Medicaid Data|The pace of gentrification has accelerated in cities across the country since 2000, and many observers fear it is displacing low-income populations from their homes and communities. We offer new evidence about the consequences of gentrification on mobility, building and neighborhood conditions, using longitudinal New York City Medicaid records from January 2009 to December 2015 to track the movement of a cohort of low-income children over seven years, during a period of rapid gentrification in the city. We leverage building-level data to examine children in market rate housing separately from those in subsidized housing. We find no evidence that gentrification is associated with meaningful changes in mobility rates over the seven-year period. It is associated with slightly longer distance moves. As for changes in neighborhood conditions, we find that children who start out in a gentrifying area experience larger improvements in some aspects of their residential environment than their counterparts who start out in persistently low-socioeconomic status areas. This effect is driven by families who stay in neighborhoods as they gentrify; we observe few differences in the characteristics of destination neighborhoods among families who move, though we find modest evidence that children moving from gentrifying areas move to lower-quality buildings.
R31|Affordable Housing and City Welfare|Housing affordability has become one of the main policy challenges for the major cities of the world. Two key policy levers are zoning and rent control policies. We build a new dynamic equilibrium asset pricing model to evaluate the implications of such policies for house prices, rents, production and income, residential construction, income and wealth inequality, as well as the spatial distribution of households within the city. We calibrate the model to New York City, incorporating current zoning and rent control systems. Our model suggests large welfare gains from relaxing zoning regulations in Manhattan, and more modest gains from reducing the size of the rent control program. The former policy is progressive and a Pareto improvement, while rent control reform is regressive in nature and hurts the current beneficiaries.
R31|Consumer-Lending Discrimination in the FinTech Era|Discrimination in lending can occur either in face-to-face decisions or in algorithmic scoring. We provide a workable interpretation of the courts’ legitimate-business-necessity defense of statistical discrimination. We then estimate the extent of racial/ethnic discrimination in the largest consumer-lending market using an identification afforded by the pricing of mortgage credit risk by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We find that lenders charge Latinx/African-American borrowers 7.9 and 3.6 basis points more for purchase and refinance mortgages respectively, costing them $765M in aggregate per year in extra interest. FinTech algorithms also discriminate, but 40% less than face-to-face lenders. These results are consistent with both FinTech and non-FinTech lenders extracting monopoly rents in weaker competitive environments or profiling borrowers on low-shopping behavior. Such strategic pricing is not illegal per se, but under the law, it cannot result in discrimination. The lower levels of price discrimination by algorithms suggests that removing face-to-face interactions can reduce discrimination. Further silver linings emerge in the FinTech era: (1) Discrimination is declining; algorithmic lending may have increased competition or encouraged more shopping with the ease of platform applications. (2) We find that 0.74-1.3 million minority applications were rejected between 2009 and 2015 due to discrimination; however, FinTechs do not discriminate in loan approval.
R31|Hurricane Katrina Floods New Jersey: The Role of Information in the Market Response to Flood Risk|This study uses hedonic property models to explore how coastal real estate markets subject to heterogeneous information treatments respond to flood risk. We identify reactions to flood risk, distinctly from price effects due to flood damage, by examining non-local flooding events. Utilizing a difference-in-difference methodology, we test whether the coastal real estate market in New Jersey responds to several well-publicized hurricanes and tropical storms that did not strike the Atlantic seaboard. We find that homes in high flood risk zones situated in towns that participate in public flood awareness activities incur a 7 to 16 percent decrease in price after the non-local shock.
R31|Waiting for Affordable Housing in New York City|We develop a new dynamic equilibrium model with heterogeneous households that captures the most important frictions that arise in housing rental markets and explains the political popularity of affordable housing policies. We estimate the model using data collected by the New York Housing Vacancy Survey in 2011. We find that there are significant adjustment costs in all markets as well as serious search frictions in the market for affordable housing. Moreover, there are large queuing frictions in the market for public housing. Having access to rent-stabilized housing increases household welfare by up to $65,000. Increasing the supply of affordable housing by ten percent significantly improves the welfare of all renters in the city. Progressive taxation of higher-income households that live in public housing can also be welfare improving.
R31|Does Condominium Development Lead to Gentrification?|The condominium structure, which facilitates ownership of units in multi-family buildings, was only introduced to the US during the 1960s. We ask whether the subsequent development of condominiums encouraged high-income households to move to central cities. Although we document a strong positive correlation between condominium density and resident income, this association is entirely driven by endogenous development of condos in areas otherwise attractive to high-income households. When we instrument for condo density using the passage of municipal regulations limiting condo conversions, we find little association between condo development and resident income, education or race.
R31|Housing Prices, Inter-generational Co-residence, and “Excess” Savings by the Young: Evidence using Chinese Data|In many countries of the world the co-residence of young adults aged 25-34 with their parents is not uncommon and in some countries the savings rates of these age groups exceed those of the middle-aged contrary to the standard model of life-cycle savings. In this paper we examine the role of housing prices in affecting the living arrangements of adult family members and their individual savings rates by age. Using unique data from China that enable the re-construction of whole families and identify individual savings regardless of who within the family co-resides in the same household, and exploiting the Chinese government rules determining the supply of land for residential housing, we find that increases in housing prices significantly increase inter-generational co-residence and elevate the savings rates of the young relative to the middle-aged, conditional on income, in part due to the subsidies to the young from sharing housing with parents. Based on our estimates of the effects of housing prices on co-residence and the effects of co-residence on individual savings, we find that the savings rates of the young in China would be 21% lower if housing prices were at the same ratio to disposable incomes as that observed in the United States.
R31|How Do Foreclosures Exacerbate Housing Downturns?|We present a dynamic search model in which foreclosures exacerbate housing busts and delay the housing market;s recovery. By eroding lender equity, destroying the credit of potential buyers, and making buyers more selective, foreclosures freeze the market for non-foreclosures can cause price-default spirals that amplify an initial shock. To quantitatively asses these channels, the model is calibrated to the recent bust. The amplification is significant: ruined credit and choosey buyers account for 22.5 percent of the total decline in non-distressed prices and lender losses account for an additional 30 percent. We use our model to evaluate foreclosure mitigation policies and find that payment reduction is quite effective, but creating a single seller of foreclosures that holds them off the market until demand picks up is the most effective policy. Policies that slow down the pace of foreclosures can be counterproductive.
R31|Housing cooperatives are a growing presence in Australiaâ€™s housing system, providing a diversity of housing forms to a variety of household types across the income spectrum, typically serving low- and moderate-income households. International evidence shows that housing cooperatives can provide a range of housing from very low price points through to market rate in both non-urban and urban contexts. The research presented in this report reviewed a selection of international cooperative housing sectors in addition to the Australian context, with the aims of compiling current evidence for the social and financial benefits of housing cooperatives, to develop a framework to assess this in Australia; and to identify preliminary issues regarding the growth and diversification of housing cooperatives in Australia. Australian and international evidence for the benefits of housing cooperatives focuses on seven primary areas; greater levels of social capital, greater housing security and quality, health and wellbeing, skills acquisition, reduced costs, broader economic and development outcomes. Based on the international review, five factors can be seen to help the growth of cooperative housing in addition to supportive policy and/or public funding. Core amongst these are a stable asset base if the State itself is not the developer, access to appropriate finance, and familiarity and acceptance in the market. The growth and diversification of Australiaâ€™s cooperative housing sector requires assessment of its legislative and funding environment. Factors for consideration are: 1. Individual project viability; 2. Access to property title; 3. Appropriate development finance and resident mortgage mechanisms; 4. Policy support; 5. Appropriate regulation|No abstract is available for this item.
R31|Housing markets and macroeconomic risks|Housing markets are large and highly volatile: they can thus create large macroeconomic risks. The current paper provides a bird’s eye view of where the housing markets of major OECD economies currently stand. It then uses the results of recently developed models to provide indications of where macroeconomic risks exist. Finally, the paper draws on recent empirical analyses to suggest how economic policies can enhance economic resilience by reducing housing-related risks through macroprudential measures and housing market reforms (such as changes in rent regulation, taxation and land use policies).
R31|Empirical links between housing markets and economic resilience|Housing markets, which are large and subject to sharp swings, shape to a great extent countries’ exposure to economic crises and their capacity to recover from them. This paper analyses the transmission of housing-related shocks to the real economy: it investigates the role that policy plays in (a) mitigating or amplifying shocks and (b) facilitating or hampering a recovery. It considers macroprudential measures, rental regulation, taxation and land use restrictions. The aim is to investigate, which housing policy-related reforms can foster greater economic resilience. Among other results, it finds that a tighter macroprudential stance is generally linked to a lower likelihood of economic crisis and that higher effective rates of housing taxation are associated with smoother housing cycles.
R31|Improving well-being through better housing policy in New Zealand|New Zealand’s housing supply has not kept pace with rising demand, including from net immigration. Affordability has worsened, particularly for low-income renters. Government action is underway to allow new housing through initiatives such as the Urban Growth Agenda, KiwiBuild and the Housing and Urban Development Authority, but further steps are needed to improve well-being. Clear overarching principles for sustainable urban development and rationalisation of strict regulatory containment policies would allow the planning system to better respond to demand for land. Incentives for local governments to accommodate growth could be increased by giving them access to additional revenue linked to local development. More user charging and targeted rates would also help to fund infrastructure required to service new housing. Government delivery of affordable housing through KiwiBuild should be re-focused towards enabling the supply of land to developers, supporting development of affordable rental housing and further expanding social housing in areas facing shortages.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (http://www.oecd.org/economy/new-zealand-economic-snapshot/).
R31|Explorative Analyse der Preise von Einfamilienhäusern und Eigentumswohnungen in Deutschland|Untersucht werden die von BulwienGesa erhobenen und aufbereiteten jahresdurchschnittlichen Wiederverkaufspreise von Eigentumswohnungen und Einfamilienhäusern in 401 kreisfreien Städten und Landkreisen für die Jahre 2004–2017. Dabei zeigt sich eine Zunahme der regionalen Streuung im Zeitverlauf vor allem in der auf die Finanzkrise 2007–2009 folgenden Zeit. Im Durchschnitt der Regionen (Landkreise und kreisfreie Städte) steigen die Preise; sie entwickeln sich aber regional stark unterschiedlich (in manchen Regionen stagnieren sie oder sind gefallen). Dies führt auch zur Zunahme der Variationskoeffizienten, also der relativen Streuung der regionalen Preise. Dies deutet auf eine Zunahme der regionalen Disparitäten in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Besondere Divergenzen zeigen sich zwischen den alten und den neuen Bundesländern, wie auch zwischen prosperierenden kreisfreien Städten und deren Umland und ökonomisch schwächeren Städten und Landkreisen.
R31|The Impact of Rental Housing on Neighborhood Racial and Social Integration|Neighborhood racial and class segregation continue to be major social problems within America’s metropolitan areas. Segregation has been linked to a whole host of racial and class inequalities, including access to jobs, schooling and single parenthood, and future earnings. One factor accounting for segregation is the inability of black and lower income households to afford housing in white neighborhoods, where housing units historically have been largely owner-occupied single-family homes. In recent years there has been a shift in the housing makeup of many of these neighborhoods, with rentals and foreclosures increasing in share. This has made housing more affordable in these neighborhoods. In this paper we investigate the impact that foreclosures and three types of rentals (single-family, condominium, and apartments) have on neighborhood racial and income integration using data from Miami-Dade County, Florida. We find that neighborhoods have become more racially and socially integrated as rentals have increased as a share of the housing stock.
R31|What do we know about Housing Supply? The case of Hong Kong|"The house price in Hong Kong is well-known to be ""unaffordable."" This paper relates the macroeconomy and the housing market of Hong Kong and argues that the housing supply plays a vital role in explaining the phenomenon. This paper also shows that there are some practical challenges in understanding the housing supply of Hong Kong, including the potentially complicated ownership structure of real estate development. While the discussion centers on the situation of Hong Kong, its lesson may also apply to the housing markets in other small open economies."
R31|Do Potential Future Health Shocks Keep Older Americans from Using Their Housing Equity?|Many retirees retain their housing equity until they die and do not utilize it to help finance spending on consumption. In this paper, I examine how older Americans (age 55+) may use their house as a form of precautionary savings in the event they face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses due to a health shock. I find that households are 12-percentage points more likely to own a home in their late retirement years if they might face an unexpected increase in medical bills, indicating that many of such households prefer not to own but choose to knowing they may get sick and face an increase in out-of-pocket medical expenses. Accordingly, I propose an insurance policy that would cover any out-of-pocket medical expenses not covered by Medicaid. When the price of the insurance policy is between 0.15%-0.50% of each householdâs house value, 12.8% of households purchase the insurance policy. In the presence of an insurance policy and health shocks, the homeownership and moving rates look like an economy without health shocks, thus correcting a possible market failure that causes households to use their house as a form of precautionary savings.
R31|A Panel Analysis of Polish Regional Cities Residential Price Convergence in the Primary Market|We employ two methodologies in order to identify groupings of cities and to analyse the factors which drive convergence in residential prices across Polish prime markets over the period 2007-2018. The Phillips and Sul (2007) methodology is used to identify convergence in primary residential prices in the major Polish cities. The results indicate that residential prices do not converge to a single common trend. However, we find the existence of three distinct sub-groups of cities (‘clubs’) where residential prices converge to their own steady-state paths. Using an ordered logit model, we investigate supply and demand factors determining club membership, which subsequently allocates 13 out of the 15 cities as belonging to the clubs identified by the Phillips and Sul procedure.
R31|Aging and House Prices: The Impact of Aging Housing Stock to Housing Market in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area|Based on an analysis of the housing market, this paper focuses on external diseconomies of aging condominiums. It is possible that the quality of condominium stock deteriorates over time more rapidly than does that of ordinary housing. This deterioration in quality leads to a reduction in the quality of housing services received by residents and, further, this worsening of the residential environment may lead to external diseconomies. We run hedonic models to identify the external diseconomies of aging condominiums on the residential market. The results of our estimated models indicate that such external diseconomies for detached housing occur in areas where detached houses and condominiums coexist, and these exert a downward pressure on prices. Detached housing prices are lowered by around 3.2% for each 1% increase in the proportion of the total building floor area in neighborhoods in which condominiums were built before 1990. In other words, we can state that aging condominiums begin to generate diseconomies in their vicinities around 20 years after they were built.
R31|Of Cities and Slums|The emergence of slums is a common feature in a country's path towards urbanization, structural transformation and development. Based on salient micro and macro evidence of Brazilian labor, housing and education markets, we construct a simple model to examine the conditions for slums to emerge. We then use the model to examine whether slums are barriers or stepping stones for lower skilled households and for the development of the country as a whole. We calibrate our model to explore the dynamic interaction between skill formation, income inequality and structural transformation with the rise (and potential fall) of slums in Brazil. We then conduct policy counterfactuals. For instance, we find that cracking down on slums could slow down the acquisition of human capital, the growth of cities (outside slums) and non-agricultural employment. The impact of reducing housing barriers to entry into cities and of different forms of school integration between the city and the slums is also explored.
R31|Asymmetric effects of monetary policy in regional housing markets|The responsiveness of house prices to monetary policy shocks depends both on the nature of the shock – expansionary versus contractionary – and on city-specific housing supply elasticities. We test and find supporting evidence for the hypothesis that expansionary monetary policy shocks have a larger impact on house prices when supply elasticities are low on 263 US metropolitan areas. We also test whether contractionary shocks are orthogonal to supply elasticities, as implied by downward rigidity of housing supply, and find supporting evidence. A final theoretical conjecture is that contractionary shocks should have a greater impact on house prices than expansionary shocks, as long as supply is not perfectly inelastic. For areas with high housing supply elasticity, our results are in line with this conjecture. However, for areas with an inelastic housing supply, we find that expansionary shocks have a greater impact on house prices than contractionary shocks. We provide evidence that this is related to a momentum effect that is more pronounced when house prices are increasing than when they are falling.
R31|Energy performance certificates and investments in building energy efficiency: a theoretical analysis|In the European Union, Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) provide potential buyers or tenants with information on a property's energy performance. By mitigating informational asymmetries on real estate markets, the conventional wisdom is that they will reduce energy use, increase energy-efficiency investments, and improve social welfare. We develop a dynamic model that partly contradicts these predictions. Although EPCs always improve social welfare, their impact on energy use and investments is ambiguous. This implies that, in a second-best world where energy externalities are under-priced and/or homeowners have behavioral biases hindering investments (myopia), EPCs can damage social welfare. This calls for using mandatory energy labeling in contexts where additional instruments efficiently mitigate the other imperfections.
R31|Followed by Violence: Forced Immigration and Homicides|We study the causal impact of large inflows of internal displaced people (IDP) on homicides in Colombian host municipalities during the period 1999-2014. Following two distinct instrumental variable approaches while leveraging on high quality and high frequency administrative panel data on IDP flows and homicides across Colombian municipalities, we identify an economically sizable impact: a standard deviation increase in inflows, increases the homicides rate by 0.6 standard deviations. This effects is larger in cities and among men. While IDP inflows are associated with increasing homicide rates for all the age groups, we document that the standardized effects are larger for young individuals (i.e., age groups 15-19 and 20-24 years old).
R31|Energy efficiency, information, and the acceptability of rent increases: A multiple price list experiment with tenants|This paper studies the role of imperfect information and attentional biases in the context of energy efficiency investments in rented properties and associated split incentives. We design a multiple price list experiment representing owners' decision to replace the central heating appliance, and employ both within-subject information disclosure and betweensubject variation in information provision to quantify how tenants trade-off energy efficiency and rent increases. A set of quantile regressions suggests that information on expected energy bills reduction induces around 30% of tenants to equate financial savings and acceptable rent increase. Around 20% of tenants oppose rent increase and do not respond to information, whereas tenants' valuation in the upper tail of the distribution exceeds financial savings, presumably on account of pro-environmental motives. By contrast, information on energy bills variability dampens acceptable rent increase. Our results highlight the importance of realistic ex-ante estimates of financial savings associated with energy efficiency investments.
R31|Owner Occupied Housing in the CPI and Its Impact On Monetary Policy During Housing Booms and Busts| The treatment of owner-occupied housing (OOH) is probably the most important unresolved issue in infl ation measurement. The European Union has been grappling with this problem for over a decade. We argue for measuring OOH costs using a particular version of the user cost method. We then compare the impact of eight different treatments of OOH on the consumer price index (CPI), using quantile hedonic regression. The impact on the CPI is large, and the treatment of OOH emerges as an essential prerequisite to discussions over how an infl ation targeting central bank should respond to housing booms and busts.
R31|A residential land price index for Luxembourg: Dealing with the spatial dimension|Urban development projects have many effects on society, such as improving mobility, health, education, and sustainability. For policy-relevant measures, it is important that policymakers are able to foresee how quality improvements influence the price of land. Therefore, our objective is to collect a set of variables able to account for the effects of a multitude of land quality improvements. In addition, surrounding plots and the natural and built environment might also influence urban land prices. However, most house price and land price indices do not control for any potentially related spatial effects. The urban land price index detailed here is based on land transaction prices for Luxembourg between 2010 and 2014 recorded in notarial deeds and cadastral data, together with geo-spatial characteristics. The proposed index includes many aspects in an initial hedonic model specification, the index also operates on a spatial model.
R31|Do House Prices Sink or Ride the Wave of Immigration?|The sharp rise in international migration is a pressing social and economic issue, as seen in the recent global trend towards nationalism. One major concern is the impact of immigration on housing. We assemble a comprehensive database of 474 estimates of immigration's impact on house prices in 14 destination countries and find that immigration increases house prices, on average. However, attitudes to immigrants moderate this effect. In countries less welcoming to immigrants, house price increases are more limited.
R31|Can Public Housing Decrease Segregation? Lessons and Challenges From Non-European Immigration in France|Abstract Recent decades have seen a rapid increase in the share of non-European immigrants in public housing in Europe, which has led to concern regarding the rise of ghettos in large cities. Using French census data over three decades, we examine how this increase in public housing participation has affected segregation. While segregation levels have increased moderately, on average, the number of immigrant enclaves has grown. The growth of enclaves is being driven by the large increase in non-European immigrants in the census tracts where the largest housing projects are located, both in the housing projects and the surrounding nonpublic dwellings. As a result, contemporary differences in segregation levels across metropolitan areas are being shaped by the concentration of public housing within cities, in particular the share of non-European immigrants in large housing projects constructed before the 1980s. Nevertheless, the overall effect of public housing on segregation has been ambiguous. While large projects have increased segregation, the inflows of non-European immigrants into small projects have brought many immigrants into census tracts where they have previously been rare and, thus, diminished segregation levels.
R31|Labor Demand Shocks and Housing Prices across the US: Does One Size Fit All?|This paper examines whether effects of labor demand shocks on housing prices vary across time and space. Using data on 321 US metropolitan statistical areas, we estimate the medium- and long-run effects of increases in metropolitan statistical area-level employment and total labor income on housing prices. Instrumental variable estimates for different time periods, and also for coastal, non-coastal, large, and small metropolitan statistical areas are obtained using the shift-share instrument. Results suggest that labor demand shocks have positive effects on housing prices. However, these effects appear to vary across time periods and across different types of metropolitan statistical areas.
R31|The impact of the announcement of temporary building sites for refugees on house prices in Gothenburg|We evaluate the price development of apartments in neighborhoods surrounding temporary housing for refugees using the unpredicted announcement of three building sites, targeting refugees, in Gothenburg. More in particular, we look at the price development in the year after the announcement. We use a causal outcome model that takes account of time and postal-code fixed effects and we define an area to be affected by the announcement based on walking distance. We find support for a small price effect.
R31|The 2015 European Refugee Crisis and Residential Housing Rents in Germany|This paper studies the impact at county level of the mass arrival of refugees in 2015 on residential housing rents in Germany. Using unique and novel data for 2014 and 2015 on end of year (EoY) county-level refugee populations and their type of accommodation as well as on monthly individual offers of flats for rent from Germany’s leading online property broker, we find strong evidence for a negative effect of refugee immigration on rental prices for residential housing in Germany. An increase in the county-level EoY refugee share by one percentage point is associated with a lower average rental price of 0.57% in the period October to December 2015, and a lower average rental price of 0.97% in January to March 2016. Additional evidence suggests that this negative price effect may have been facilitated by increases in the share of refugees in decentralized accommodation. IV regressions that exploit for identification variation in intra-state distances between counties that house refugee reception centers and surrounding counties produce even stronger negative price effects. Our finding of a negative price effect is at odds with the majority of studies which have investigated the consequences of immigration for local property markets at the county or city level. These diverging results may reflect differences in natives’ perceptions of potential adverse externalities associated with refugee migration, differences of seemingly sufficient magnitude to successfully counteract and outweigh any positive demand-side driven stimulus of immigration for higher rental prices.
R31|Credit Supply and Housing Speculation|Speculation is a critical channel through which credit supply expansion affects the housing cycle. The surge in private label mortgage securitization in 2003 fueled a large expansion in mortgage credit supply by lenders financed with non-core deposits. Areas more exposed to these lenders experienced a large relative rise in transaction volume driven by a small group of speculators, and these areas simultaneously witnessed an amplified housing boom and bust. Consistent with the importance of belief heterogeneity, house price growth expectations of marginal buyers rose during the boom, while housing market pessimism among the general population increased.
R31|Sorting or Steering: Experimental Evidence on the Economic Effects of Housing Discrimination|Housing discrimination is illegal. However, paired-tester audit experiments have revealed evidence of discrimination in the interactions between potential buyers and real estate agents, raising concern about whether certain groups are systematically excluded from the beneficial effects of healthy neighborhoods. Using data from HUD's most recent Housing Discrimination Study and micro-level data on key attributes of neighborhoods in 28 US cities, we find strong evidence of discrimination in the characteristics of neighborhoods towards which individuals are steered. Conditional upon the characteristics of the house suggested by the audit tester, minorities are significantly more likely to be steered towards neighborhoods with less economic opportunity and greater exposures to crime and pollution. We find that holding location preferences or income constant, discriminatory steering alone can explain a disproportionate number of minority households found in high poverty neighborhoods in the United States and could be an important contributor to the gap in intergenerational income mobility found between black-white households. The steering effect is also large enough to fully explain the differential found in proximity to Superfund sites among African American mothers. These results have important implications for the analysis of neighborhood effects and establish discrimination as a mechanism underlying observed correlations between race and pollution in the environmental justice literature.
R31|Collateral Damage: The Impact of Foreclosures on New Home Mortgage Lending in the 1930s|Foreclosures led to severe disruptions in home mortgage lending during the recent Great Recession and the Great Depression of the 1930s. It is difficult to measure these impacts in the modern market where origination, funding and servicing are separated within complex lending structures, but during the 1930s local building & loans (B&Ls) combined all three functions. We measure the impact of foreclosures on new mortgage lending using a panel of all B&Ls in 4 states. The foreclosure overhang explains about 30 percent of the drop in new mortgage lending by B&Ls as the housing crisis intensified between 1930 and 1935.
R31|Measuring polycentricity via network flows, spatial interaction, and percolation|Polycentricity is most commonly measured by location-based metrics (e.g. employment density or total number of workers, above a threshold, used to count the number of centres). While these metrics are good indicators of location ‘centricity’, the results are sensitive to threshold-choice. We consider here the alternate idea that a centre’s status depends on which other locations it is con- nected to in terms of trip inflows and outflows: this is inherently a network rather than a location idea. A set of flow and network-based centricity metrics for measuring metropolitan area poly- centricity using Journey-To-Work (JTW) data are presented: (a) trip-based, (b) density-based, and, (c) accessibility-based. Using these measures, polycentricity is computed and rank-centricity distributions are plotted to test whether these distributions follow Zipf-like or Chirstaller-like distributions. Further, a percolation theory framework is proposed for the full origin-destination (OD) matrix, where trip flows are used as a thresholding parameter to count the number of sub-centres. It is found that trip flows prove to be an effective measure to count and hierarchically organise metropolitan area sub-centres, and provide one way of dealing with the arbitrariness of defining a threshold on numbers of employed persons, employment density, or centricities to count sub-centres. These measures demonstrated on data from the Greater Sydney region show that the trip flow-based threshold and network centricities help to characterize polycentricity more robustly than the traditional number or density-based thresholds alone and provide unexpected insights into the connections between land use, transport, and urban structure.
R31|France: Promoting economic opportunities and well-being in poor neighbourhoods|Thanks to a highly developed welfare state, poverty is moderate on average in France, but – as in other countries – highly concentrated in some neighbourhoods. Their residents face many social disadvantages, including high unemployment and inactivity, schools with many struggling children, often run-down housing and urban infrastructure, and a lack of local enterprises, services and amenities. The government focuses a wide array of policies on these areas to promote better schooling outcomes, employment and local economic activity. Urban renewal and public housing policies aim explicitly at promoting social mixing, often presented as an anti-ghetto policy. Evidence suggests that targeted investment in transport and housing infrastructure as well as education and training could go a long way to improving economic opportunities and well-being in poor areas. In contrast, special economic zones with tax breaks to attract business to these areas have a mixed track record at best. Greater social mixing is difficult to engineer, and it is far from clear if this by itself would improve the lives of the poor. There is a need to better link urban, social and judicial policies favouring alternative sentencing and support for offenders to integrate into society to avoid vicious circles of social disadvantage and crime.
R31|France: Améliorer les perspectives économiques et le bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés|Grâce à un système de protection sociale très développé, le taux de pauvreté moyen est peu élevé en France. Toutefois, comme dans d’autres pays, la pauvreté est fortement concentrée dans certains quartiers. Leurs habitants sont confrontés à de nombreux handicaps sur le plan social : chômage et inactivité élevés, forte proportion d’élèves en difficulté, logements et infrastructures urbaines en mauvais état, et pénurie d’entreprises, de services et d’agréments. L’État cible un large éventail de politiques sur ces quartiers afin d’améliorer les résultats scolaires, l’emploi et l’activité économique. Les politiques de rénovation urbaine et du logement social ont un objectif explicite de promotion de la mixité sociale, souvent considérée comme un instrument de lutte contre les ghettos. Les investissements ciblés dans les infrastructures de transport et de logement ainsi que dans l’éducation et la formation jouent un rôle déterminant dans l’amélioration des perspectives économiques et du bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés. À l’inverse, les zones franches urbaines (ZFU) offrant des allègements d’impôts aux entreprises qui s’y installent obtiennent des résultats en demi-teinte. La mixité sociale est difficile à mettre en oeuvre et il est loin d’être évident qu’elle permette, à elle seule, d’améliorer les conditions de vie des populations pauvres. Il est aussi crucial d’améliorer la coordination entre les politiques sociale, de la ville et de la justice, en privilégiant les peines alternatives et l’accompagnement des anciens détenus dans leur réinsertion afin de briser le cercle vicieux du handicap social et de la criminalité.
R31|Demystifying compact urban growth: Evidence from 300 studies from across the world|Most developed countries now pursue policies that implicitly or explicitly aim at promoting compact urban form. This report analyses more than 300 academic papers that study the effects of compact urban form, and finds that 69% of the papers reviewed find positive effects associated with compact urban form. Over 70% of studies find positive effects of economic density (the number of people living or working in an area). A smaller majority of studies attribute positive effects to mixed land use (58%) and the density of the built environment (56%). These averages hide significant variation across specific dimensions of urban development. In order to understand the effects of compact urban form, the report estimates the monetary per capita value of the change in 15 outcomes in response to a 10% change in economic density. The major benefits of economic density arise from improved productivity and better access to jobs and services. Further benefits are generated through the preservation of urban green space, greater energy efficiency, pollution reduction and safer urban environments. The major costs of higher economic density are related to congestion, health and well-being. Increasing compactness can also contribute to higher land values and housing costs, which are borne disproportionately by renters and first-time buyers. Increasing economic density therefore requires accompanying policy interventions to maximise the benefits and minimise the costs associated with compactness. In particular, policymakers need to facilitate large-scale investment in housing supply and public transport networks to ensure efficient and equitable access to housing, services and jobs in compact cities.
R31|Housing, Debt and the Economy: A Tale of Two Countries|In housing affordability levels and volatility, there could hardly be a greater contrast than between the UK and Germany. Differences in history, institutions and policies are explored in this paper. Residential housing supply has been far more expansionary in Germany and mortgage credit more tightly regulated. A sensibly regulated rental market and stable German house prices have combined to leave the rental sector with over half of tenures. Policy failures in the UK have resulted in widening intergenerational inequality, increased social exclusion, adversely affected productivity and growth and raised the risk of financial instability. Policy lessons are drawn for the UK, which go far beyond the remit of the immediately responsible Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.
R31|Do short-term rent platforms affect rents? Evidence from Airbnb in Barcelona|Peer-to-peer platforms such as airbnb have recently entered the market thanks to the development of new technologies and their influence on traditional markets remains still understudied. Similarly, the multiplicity of local regulations adopted by big touristic cities in developed countries shows a lack of consensus both on the consequences and on the role of regulation. However, the actual impact of airbnb’s market entry on rents remains still unknown. I assess the causal impact of the beginning of airbnb’s economic activity on housing rents for the city of Barcelona using a Bartiklike instrumental strategy. Results suggest that airbnb is responsible for a 4% increase in rents.
R31|Here Lives a Wealthy Man: Price Rigidity and Predictability in Luxury Housing Markets|We use novel and unique data to study the effect of price changes in the market for luxury and middle class homes. We find that luxury home sales respond less to price changes than the middle-class home sales; in the market for luxury homes, past prices affect current prices; luxury home prices persist; and prices of luxury homes are stickier than prices of middle-class homes. Recent macroeconomic models predict that housing markets can have counter-cyclical effect, if home prices are flexible. Our findings imply that home prices, especially luxury home prices, may not be flexible enough to generate such effect.
R31|Taxing Vacant Dwellings: Can fiscal policy reduce vacancy?|We provide the first evaluation of a tax on vacant housing. This instrument has been used increasingly by governments in order to reduce vacancy in large and dense cities with tight housing markets. We use the quasi-experimental setting of the implementation of a tax on vacancy in France in 1999 to identify the causal direct effect of the tax on the vacancy rate. Exploiting an exhaustive fiscal data-set, which contains information on every dwelling in France from 1995 to 2013, we implement a Difference-in-Difference approach combined with a Propensity Score Matching strategy. Our results suggest that the tax was responsible of a 13% decrease in vacancy rates between 1997 and 2001. This impact is twice as high for municipalities with an initially high level of vacancy. Our results also suggest that most of the vacant dwellings moved to primary residences.
R31|Investors’ Uncertainty and Stock Market Risk|We propose a novel approach to model investors' uncertainty using the conditional volatility of investors' sentiment. Working with weekly data on investor sentiment, six major U.S. stock indices, and alternative measures of uncertainty, we run various tests to validate our proposed measure. The estimates show that investors' uncertainty is greater during economic downturns, and it is linked with lower investors' sentiment. In addition, the results support the existence of a positive conditional correlation between sentiment and returns. This positive spillover between sentiment and returns is interpreted as a positive link between investors' uncertainty and market risk. We also find that investors’ uncertainty and market risk are strongly driven by their lagged values. Our measure consistently captures periods of high uncertainty as shown by a positive and highly statistically significant correlation with other existing measures of uncertainty.
R31|Delivering Social Housing: An Overview of the Housing Crisis in Dublin|This paper explores the responses to the housing crisis in Dublin, Ireland, by analysing recent housing policies promoted to prevent family homelessness. I argue that private rental market subsides have played an increasing role in the provision of social housing in Ireland. Instead of policies that facilitate the construction of affordable housing or the direct construction of social housing, current housing policies have addressed the social housing crisis by encouraging and relying excessively on the private market to deliver housing. The housing crisis has challenged governments to increase the social housing supply, but the implementation of a larger plan to deliver social housing has not been effective, as is evidenced by the rapid decline of both private and social housing supply and the increasing number of homeless people in Dublin
R31|Effect of Aging on Urban Land Prices in China|This paper investigates the effect of demographic changes on land prices in urban China using an Overlapping Generation (OLG) model. The model suggests that the rapid rise in land prices could be explained by the rise in per capita income and demographic changes. This finding is validated by fitting the historical data of China. We then simulate land price dynamics for China from 2000 to 2100. The simulation indicates that the rate of rising in land prices is softening. From 2035 to 2055, the effect of demographic changes on urban land prices in China will be close to zero. After 2055, the effect will turn to negative until the end of this century; however, a meltdown is unlikely.
R31|Effect of Aging on Housing Prices: A Perspective from an Overlapping Generation Model|This paper investigates the effect of aging on housing prices. It provides a theoretical explanation to address the on-going debate about this issue. The analysis demonstrates that aging has divergent effects on housing prices, depending on the net effects of a fall in fertility vis-à-vis a rise in longevity on demand for housing. In addition, the results suggest that aging could cause a turning point in the price dynamics. Before this turning point, aging would boost the prices; however, after this point, the prices are depressed because of aging. Furthermore, inequality of household utility is enlarged during the aging processes.
R31|Systemic Financial Risk Indicators and Securitised Assets: an Agent-Based Framework|The paper presents an agent-based model of a credit economy which includes a securitisation process and a bailout mechanism for banks' bankruptcies. Within this model's framework banks are able to sell mortgages to a Financial Vehicle Corporation, which finances its activity by creating Mortgage-Backed Securities and selling them to a mutual fund. In turn, the mutual fund collects liquidity by selling shares to households and remunerating them with a monthly interest rate. The impact of this mechanism is analysed by means of computational experiments for different levels of securitisation propensities of banks. Furthermore, we study a set of systemic risk indicators which have the aim to assess financial imbalances within the financial system. Two of them are the mortgage-to-GDP ratio and the Capital Adequacy Ratio which are constructed to detect only the in-balance sheet changes in banks' credit exposure. We consider two additional indicators, similar to the previous ones with the only difference that they are able to account also for the off-balance sheet items. Moreover, we introduce a novel indicator, the so-called VUC indicator, which also targets the off-balance assets. Results confirm that higher securitisation propensities weaken the financial stability of banks with relevant effects on different sectors of the economy. Most important, the analysis of systemic risk reveals the important issue of designing suitable systemic risk indicators for predicting incoming financial crises, finding that an essential feature of these indicators should be to integrate banks' off-balance sheet assets.
R31|A lakhatás megfizethetősége: lakbérek és albérletpiac<BR>[Affordability of housing: rentals and apartment market]|The affordable and adequate housing in a safe environment is a basic necessity and a fundamental right. There are two major disadvantages of renting a home in Hungary today: uncertainty and high price. However, many international examples show that renting a home is often more popular and cheaper than buying a private home: while only 9% of the population rent a flat in Hungary, almost half of the population in Germany, and more than 40% in Austria and over 30 % in the Netherlands live in a rental apartment. Even the significant differences between the rental fees do not diminish the migration of the Central and Eastern European labour force, since an average of € 1,200 in London and € 1,500 in Berlin remain at the foreign employees for living after the payment of it, while at home it is only € 500. Housing affordability is a problem in all the European Union countries. It is worth noting that the tighter state oversight of the apartment market is commonplace in Western and Northern Europe.
R31|Does an Oligopolistic Primary Market Matter? The Case of an Asian Housing Market|This paper takes advantage of the oligopolistic structure of the Hong Kong primary housing market and examines whether the time-variations of the market concentration are caused by or cause the variations of the local economic factors. The analysis also takes into consideration of the changes of the U.S. variables and commodity prices, which arguably may represent changes in the construction cost. We find clear evidence of time-varying responses of housing market variables to macroeconomic variables. Policy implications and directions for future research are also discussed.
R31|Does the law of one price hold for hedonic prices?|Hedonic prices of locational attributes in urban land markets are determined by a process of spatial arbitrage that is similar to that which underpins the law of one price. If hedonic prices deviate from their spatial equilibrium values then individuals can benefit from changing locations. I examine whether the law holds for the hedonic price of rail access using a unique historical dataset for Berlin over the period 1890-1914, characterised by massive investment in the transport infrastructure. I estimate the hedonic price of rail access across multiple urban neighbourhoods and time periods to generate a panel dataset of hedonic price differences that I test for stationarity using a panel unit root test. Across multiple specifications I consistently fail to reject the null hypothesis of no unit root and accept the alternative hypothesis that the law holds. My estimates indicate a half-life for convergence to the law of one price that lies between 0.28 and 1.14 years. This result is consistent with spatial equilibrium.
R31|Does Gentrification Displace Poor Households? An 'Identification-Via-Interaction' Approach|My theoretical model motivates an 'identification-via-interaction' (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991-2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
R31|The role of demand in land re-development|Several governments throughout the world apply policies aimed to re-mediate and recover vacant or idle land for other uses. This paper provides estimates of the price sensitivity of redevelopment, a crucial parameter for the success of these policies. My cross-sectional estimates measure how prices affect long-run conversion of unused or underused previously developed land in England. In order to solve the classical problem in the estimation of supply elasticities from market outcomes, I exploit school quality information and school admission boundaries to obtain a demand-shifter that is orthogonal to re-development costs. Estimation is conducted using a boundary discontinuity design based on this instrument. Results show that the probability of re-development is effectively sensitive to housing prices. Estimates indicate that a 1% increase in housing prices leads to a 0.07 percentage point reduction in the fraction of hectares containing brownfield land. Back-of-the envelope calculations using these estimates suggest that a large increase of 21% in prices across locations, or an equivalent subsidy, would be required to eliminate most of these vacant or underused land plots.
R31|The economic impacts of constraining second home investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the ‘Swiss Second Home Initiative’, which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R31|History dependence in the housing market|Using the universe of housing transactions in England and Wales in the last twenty years, we document a robust pattern of history dependence in housing markets. Sale prices and selling probabilities today are affected by aggregate house prices prevailing in the period in which properties were previously bought. We investigate the causes of history dependence, with its quantitative implications for the post-crisis recovery of the housing market. To do so we complement our analysis with administrative data on mortgages and online house listings, which we match to actual sales. We find that high leverage in the pre-crisis period and anchoring (or reference dependence) both contributed to the collapse and slow recovery of the volume of housing transactions. We find no asymmetric effects of anchoring to previous prices on current transactions; in other words, loss aversion does not appear to play a role over and above simple anchoring.
R31|The Changing Geography of Intergenerational Mobility|Does the importance of your family background on how far you get in adulthood also depend on where you grow up? For many countries, Britain included, a paucity of data has made this a question with very little reliable evidence to answer. To redress this evidence lacuna, we present a new analysis of intergenerational mobility across three cohorts in England and Wales using linked decennial census microdata. As well as testing the robustness of existing survey evidence on mobility trends over time, this large dataset permits analysis to be undertaken at a more geographically disaggregated level than was previously feasible. Evidence is presented on occupational wages, home ownership and education. Our new analysis shows a slight decline in occupation-wage mobility and a substantial decline in home ownership mobility over the late 20th century in England and Wales, while the picture for educational mobility is less clear. Focusing on the most recent cohort, we find marked geographic differences in mobility. We find that occupation-wage mobility is exceptionally high in London, while ex-industrial and mining areas experience the lowest rates of mobility. Areas with low occupation-wage mobility were more likely to vote to leave the European Union in the 2016 referendum. Home ownership mobility is negatively correlated with house prices and not correlated with occupation-wage mobility, suggesting that geographical comparisons based on one dimension of mobility need not always align with those based on alternative measures.
R31|Quota de logements sociaux et coûts liés à la scolarisation des jeunes enfants|Nous évaluons les coûts liés à la satisfaction du quota SRU lorsque la construction de logements sociaux nécessite aussi la construction d’écoles maternelles et primaires sur le territoire communal pour y accueillir les jeunes enfants. Ces coûts sont évalués pour les 45 communes de Seine-et-Marne soumises à l’obligation de rattrapage en 2015. Nous trouvons qu’en moyenne, les coûts liés à la construction des écoles (foncier inclus) représentent 75 % de l’investissement à la charge des communes, les subventions aux logements sociaux comptant pour les 25 % restants. Pour certaines communes, les hausses d'impôts locaux nécessaires pour financer ces coûts sont non négligeables et peuvent atteindre jusqu'à 25 % tandis que pour d'autres, la contribution des nouveaux ménages du parc social à la taxe d'habitation (ou, de manière équivalente, le montant compensé par l'Etat au titre des dégrèvements) et les augmentations de la dotation globale de fonctionnement modèrent très fortement les hausses d’impôts locaux. Classification-JEL: R31, L38
R31|Rental Housing Affordability in the Southeast: Data from the Sixth District|Housing data are available for most large metropolitan regions in the Atlanta Fed's Southeast region. However, many midsized metropolitan, micropolitan, and nonmetro areas lack detailed data on rental housing affordability and housing supply needs by income level. These data are important for state and local governments, affordable housing developers, and housing advocates to inform housing policy. Therefore, the Atlanta Fed partnered with the Shimberg Center at the University of Florida to analyze census data using a methodology developed for Shimberg's periodic Rental Market Study for the state of Florida (Shimberg Center for Housing Studies, 2013, 2016). This paper covers the six states that are fully or partially in the Atlanta Fed's District: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee. {{p}} In this paper, the authors provide a regional snapshot of housing affordability and the availability of affordable rental housing units at several scales for the Atlanta Fed's District, using data from the 2015 American Community Survey (ACS). They include figures for city, metropolitan, and state areas as well as regional figures for nonmetro areas. The authors segment the data by household income using the area median income (AMI) of each respective region. They provide estimates for renter households within five major income brackets: extremely low income (0 to 30 percent AMI), very low income (30.01 to 50 percent AMI), low income (50.01 to 80 percent AMI), moderate income (80.01 to 120 percent AMI), and upper income (more than 120 percent AMI). {{p}} The authors use two measures of housing affordability: 1) the share of cost-burdened households and 2) affordable and available rental housing supply. Metrics include the percent of cost-burdened renter households (people who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing) and extremely cost-burdened renter households (people who pay more than 50 percent of their income on housing). Metrics also include the deficit or surplus in rental units that are both available and affordable to households at each of the above area median-income brackets. These measures tend to correlate, with high percentages of cost-burdened households associated with significant deficits in affordable and available units for low- and moderate-income households.
R31|Technological Innovation in Mortgage Underwriting and the Growth in Credit: 1985-2015|The application of information technology to finance, or “fintech,” is expected to revolutionize many aspects of borrowing and lending in the future, but technology has been reshaping consumer and mortgage lending for many years. During the 1990s computerization allowed mortgage lenders to reduce loan-processing times and largely replace human-based assessment of credit risk with default predictions generated by sophisticated empirical models. Debt-to-income ratios at origination add little to the predictive power of these models, so the new automated underwriting systems allowed higher debt-to-income ratios than previous underwriting guidelines would have typically accepted. In this way, technology brought about an exogenous change in lending standards, which helped raise the homeownership rate and encourage the conversion of rental properties to owner-occupied ones, but did not have large effects on housing prices. Technological innovation in mortgage underwriting may have allowed the 2000s housing boom to grow, however, because it enhanced the ability of both borrowers and lenders to act on optimistic beliefs about future house-price growth.
R31|Explosive Dynamics in House Prices? An Exploration of Financial Market Spillovers in Housing Markets Around the World|Asset prices in general, and real house prices in particular, are often characterized by a nonlinear data-generating process which displays mildly explosive behavior in some periods. Here, we investigate the emergence of explosiveness in the dynamics of real house prices and the role played by asset market spillovers. We establish a timeline of periodically-collapsing episodes of explosiveness for a panel of 23 countries from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas’ International House Price Database (Mack and Martínez-García (2011)) between first quarter 1975 and fourth quarter 2015 using the recursive unit root test methodology proposed by Phillips et al. (2015a,b). Motivated by the theory of financial arbitrage, we examine within a dynamic panel logit/probit framework whether macro fundamentals—and, more specifically, financial variables—help predict episodes of explosiveness in real house prices. We find that interest rate spreads and real stock market growth together with standard macro variables (growth in personal disposable income per capita and inflation) are amongst the best predictors. We, therefore, argue that financial developments in other asset markets play a significant role in the emergence of explosiveness in housing markets.
R31|Can More Housing Supply Solve the Affordability Crisis? Evidence from a Neighborhood Choice Model|We estimate a neighborhood choice model using 2014 American Community Survey data to investigate the degree to which new housing supply can improve housing affordability. In the model, equilibrium rental rates are determined so that the number of households choosing each neighborhood is equal to the number of housing units in each neighborhood. We use the estimated model to simulate how rental rates would respond to an exogenous increase in the number of housing units in a neighborhood. We find that the rent elasticity is low, and thus marginal reductions in supply constraints alone are unlikely to meaningfully reduce rent burdens. The reason for this result appears to be that rental rates are more closely determined by the level of amenities in a neighborhood—as in a Rosen-Roback spatial equilibrium framework—than by the supply of housing.
R31|Measuring Aggregate Housing Wealth : New Insights from an Automated Valuation Model|We construct a new measure of aggregate U.S. housing wealth based on Zillow’s Automated Valuation Model (AVM). AVMs offer advantages over other methods because they are based on recent market transaction prices, utilize large datasets which include property characteristics and local geographic variables, and are updated frequently with little lag. However, using Zillow’s AVM to measure aggregate housing wealth requires overcoming several challenges related to the representativeness of the Zillow sample. We propose methods that address these challenges and generate a new estimate of aggregate U.S. housing wealth from 2001 to 2016. This new measure provides insights into some of the disadvantages of other approaches to measuring housing wealth. Specifically, with respect to the owner valuations typically used in survey data, it appears that homeowners were slow to recognize the drop in housing wealth during the financial crisis and that their estimates of this drop were unrealistically small. At the same time, repeat-sales price indexes appear to overstate the extent of the drop in value between 2006 and 2011 and overstate the recovery thereafter.
R31|Employment in the Great Recession : How Important Were Household Credit Supply Shocks?|I pool data from all large multimarket lenders in the U.S. to estimate how many of the over seven million jobs lost in the Great Recession can be explained by reductions in the supply of mortgage credit. I construct a mortgage credit supply instrument at the county level, the weighted average (by prerecession mortgage market shares) of liquidity-driven lender shocks during the recession. The reduction in mortgage supply explains about 15 percent of the employment decline. The job losses are concentrated in construction and finance.
R31|Rural Affordable Rental Housing : Quantifying Need, Reviewing Recent Federal Support, and Assessing the Use of Low Income Housing Tax Credits in Rural Areas|Recently, there has been significant interest in the high levels of rental cost burden being experienced across the United States. Much of this scholarship has focused on rental cost burdens in larger urban areas, or at the national level, and has not explored differences in the prevalence of rental cost burden in urban versus rural communities. In this paper, I find that rental cost burdens are a challenge facing both urban and rural communities. However, despite the need for affordable rental housing in rural communities identified, I find the amount of resources made available by the federal government to address this challenge are at a low point relative to recent history. My analysis of federal resource availability also finds one program has been an important and resilient tool for the development and preservation of affordable housing in urban and rural communities: the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program. Congress delegated much of the LIHTC program’s implementation to the states, whereby states choose many of the factors to prioritize when allocating LIHTCs to specific projects. Therefore, I explored each state’s qualified allocation plan to identify whether specific factors make it more or less likely rural areas will receive a “fair share” of LIHTC allocations based on their need relative to non-rural areas. My analysis did not identify a specific factor or set of factors that systematically increased or decreased the likelihood of allocations being proportionate to the relative needs of a state’s rural communities. However, I did identify a number of factors that by their very design appeared to affect positively or negatively the likelihood that specific types of projects or project locations would receive allocations. Interviews with industry stakeholders confirmed that many of these factors are affecting developer decisions and may be unintentionally disadvantaging smaller, more remote rural projects.
R31|National and Regional Housing Vacancy: Insights Using Markov-switching Models|We examine homeowner vacancy rates over time and space using Markov-switching models. Our theoretical analysis extends the Wheaton (1990) search and matching model for housing by incorporating regime-switching behavior and interregional spillovers. Our approach is strongly supported by our empirical results. Estimations, using constant-only as well as Vector Autoregressions, allow us to examine differences in vacancy rates as well as explore the possibility of asymmetries within and across housing markets, depending on the state/regime (e.g., low or high vacancy) of a given housing market. Estimated vacancy rates, conditional on the vacancy regime, which are found to be persistent, vary across regions in all Markov-Switching Vector Autoregression (MS-VAR) models. Models allowing for interregional effects via lagged vacancy rates and controls relating to migration tend to perform better than models lacking this feature. These models track vacancies well. Noteworthy is their performance during the Great Recession/Financial Crisis. The importance and diversity of interregional effects are demonstrated, and vacancies in a specific Census region are affected by vacancies in other regions. Moreover, the sizes of these effects depend on the vacancy state of the specific region.
R31|Long-term outcomes of FHA first-time homebuyers|The Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which insures mortgages for low- to moderate-income homebuyers, has stated that its goal is to foster sustainable homeownership. This study proposes metrics for evaluating the degree to which the FHA has succeeded in this mission for an important program constituency, first-time homebuyers. The approach uses data from the New York Fed’s Consumer Credit Panel, a data source that makes it possible to observe new mortgage borrowers’ long-term outcomes. The findings presented in sample scorecards show, for example, that in the 2001 and 2002 cohorts, 55 percent achieved “sustainability,” paying off their FHA first-time mortgages and remaining homeowners without the need for a subsequent FHA mortgage. Roughly 12 percent failed, seeing their homeownership experiences end in default. The remainder reached less clear outcomes, with 12 percent paying off their FHA loans but transitioning back to rental homes, 10-12 percent continuing on with their original loans while building more home equity, and 8-10 percent purchasing a trade-up home, relying once more on an FHA loan.
R31|Higher Frequency Hedonic Property Price Indices: A State Space Approach| The hedonic imputation method estimates separate characteristic shadow prices for each period. These are used to construct matched samples, which are inserted into standard price index formulas. We implement two innovations to improve the method’s effectiveness on housing data at higher frequencies. First, we use a time-varying parameter model in state-space form to increase the reliability of the estimated characteristic shadow prices. Second, we significantly reduce the number of parameters by replacing postcode dummies by a geospatial spline surface. Empirically, using a novel criterion, we show that in higher frequency comparisons our hedonic method outperforms competing alternatives.
R31|An Examination of the Link between Urban Planning Policies and the High Cost of Housing and Labor|Past research has established positive empirical relation between city-level land use regulations and housing costs. One interpretation of these findings is that building restrictions raise the cost of producing housing. Alternatively, these price effects could reflect greater willingness to pay for quality urban design. Disentangling and identifying cost versus amenity factors empirically is an unresolved challenge. This paper presents an alternative to empirical tests, relying instead on the predictions of neoclassical urban theory. Simulations of an open city model demonstrate that theoretical predictions differ substantially from those obtained from empirical testing in two main ways. First, restrictions on land use and housing density influence the price level but not the elasticity of housing supply. Second, the effects of land use restrictions on average house prices are ambiguous and depend on the precise location of the planning restriction. Furthermore, the model generates direct estimates of effects on wages and demonstrates that transportation impediments are more consequential for housing prices than land use restrictions. This indicates a potentially fruitful path for future empirical work, and the possibility of omitted variable bias if transportation impediments are correlated with land use regulation.
R31|Search and Credit Frictions in the Housing Market|This paper develops a model of the housing market with search and credit frictions. The interaction between the two frictions gives rise to a novel channel through which the financial sector affects prices and liquidity in the housing market. Furthermore, an interesting feature of the model is that both frictions combined lead to multiple equilibria. A numerical exercise suggests that credit shocks have a relatively larger impact on mortgage debt and liquidity than on prices.
R31|Energy performance certificates and investments in building energy efficiency: a theoretical analysis|In the European Union, Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) provide potential buyers or tenants with information on a property's energy performance. By mitigating informational asymmetries on real estate markets, the conventional wisdom is that they will reduce energy use, increase energy-efficiency investments, and improve social welfare. We develop a dynamic model that partly contradicts these predictions. Although EPCs always improve social welfare, their impact on energy use and investments is ambiguous. This implies that, in a second-best world where energy externalities are under-priced and/or homeowners have behavioral biases hindering investments (myopia), EPCs can damage social welfare. This calls for using mandatory energy labeling in contexts where additional instruments efficiently mitigate the other imperfections.
R31|Does issuing building permits reduce the cost of land? An estimation based on the demand for building land in France|[eng] While the aggregate value of constructed land rose from 45% to nearly 260% of gross domestic product in France between 1998 and 2006, stabilising after the crisis, regulatory constraints on construction are used to explain the rise in land prices, which are weighing on production costs for new housing units. Here we analyse to what extent the issuance of building permits reduces the price of land. We first propose a theoretical assignment model of heterogeneous households (in terms of preferences) to heterogeneous building plots (in terms of location) to study the effects of construction on the price of land. We then estimate the inverse demand for building land by instrumenting construction (quantity) by instrumental variables relating to the nature of the land, to its topography, to the agricultural opportunity cost and to the presence of industrial brownfields. A 1% increase in the number of permits issued resulted in a moderate decrease in land prices of 0.3%, on average. The effect, which differs according to the type of construction, increases with proximity to dense zones.
R31|The impact of the 2014 increase in the real estate transfer taxes on the French housing market|[eng] This paper estimates the effects of an increase in the share of the real estate transfer taxes (RETT) going to the French départements from 3.80% to 4.50%. Not all the départements voted the RETT increase on the same date, which is the starting point of a natural experiment. Using a difference-in-differences design, we estimate two main effects. (1) An anticipation effect, one month before the implementation of the reform, in order to avoid the RETT increase. (2) A retention effect in the post-reform period. In the end, the net effect (retention minus anticipation) corresponds to an average drop in transactions of around 6% over the first three months after the reform, that is, approximately 15,000 transactions lost at national level. If we find a short term effect of the reform, we do not find evidence of a medium- or long-term effect.
R31|Accessibility, local pollution and housing prices. Evidence from Nantes Métropole, France|[eng] In this empirical article, we analyze the extent to which accessibility and environmental variables are capitalized in apartment prices in Nantes Métropole, France. Using a sample of 5,590 transactions in 2002, 2006, 2008 from the Perval database, we estimate a spatial hedonic price model that takes into account spatial autocorrelation and spatial heterogeneity. Special attention is also paid to the construction of environmental quality variables (noise exposure, air pollution). We find that apartment prices depend positively on proximity to Nantes city centre but that the public transport network (urban or non-urban) has no significant influence. Noise reduction is valued, but only at low or marginal levels of significance. Last, air quality does not significantly influence apartment prices. These results can be related to good accessibility and environmental quality in Nantes Métropole which probably makes households less sensitive to these issues than in other geographical contexts. This seems to provide little support for sustainable urban mobility plans favoring better accessibility, unless public authorities also target the greater awareness of the use of virtuous modes of transport.
R31|Airbnb in Paris : quel impact sur l’industrie hôtelière?|In many cities around the world short-term housing platforms have become an alternative in the eyes of tourists. These new players, led by Airbnb, are disrupting the market, raising concerns from the hotel industry and public authorities. Using data from hotels and Airbnb in Paris, this paper proposes a new methodology for measuring the competitive pressure exerted by Airbnb on the hotel industry. The results indicate that an increase in the number of Airbnb hosts close to a hotel leads the hotel to reduce its price. This effect is amplified on weekend evenings.
R31|A New Home Affordability Estimate: What Share of Housing Stock Can Families Afford?|"We offer a new home affordability estimate (HAE) that focuses on the share of housing stock that is affordable to certain households in the United States. The methodology considers affordability as it relates to funds available for down payments, initial monthly housing-related payments, and future projections of household income and costs. The HAE builds upon existing industry statistics in two ways. First, existing affordability indexes make certain assumptions for one or more of those funding factors. We can observe actual investment and expense values. Second, existing industry statistics consider ""typical"" families that earn the median household income level. The HAE is sufficiently more flexible for evaluating families at different places in the income distribution. This paper discusses the assumptions and processes for creating the HAE indexes; compares the national time series for very low-, low-, and medium-income families; and then documents trends across metropolitan areas. We offer the data for public usage and leave commentary about implications to future research."
R31|Traffic Noise and Housing Values: Evidence from an Airport Concession Renewal|Credible estimates of the cost of traffic noise are crucial to the assessment of the merits of noise control policies. This study estimates the cost of aircraft noise by measuring its capitalization into housing prices following an unexpected renewal of the operating contract for a local airport. The results show that a one decibel increase in aircraft noise leads to a reduction in housing values of 0.3 percent, or $1,200, on average. The capitalization rate is larger the higher is the property’s value, size and standard which suggest that owners of these houses benefit relatively more from noise abatement measures.
R31|The Impact of the Announcement of Temporary Building Sites for Refugees on House Prices in Gothenburg|We evaluate the price development of apartments in neighborhoods surrounding temporary housing for refugees using the unpredicted announcement of three building sites, targeting refugees, in Gothenburg. More in particular, we look at the price development in the year after the announcement. We use a causal outcome model that takes account of time and postal-code fixed effects and we define an area to be affected by the announcement based on walking distance. We find support for a small and significant price effect. In addition, we find that the price effect of the neighborhood depends on the income level of the neighborhood. We interpret this as evidence for the fact that not having to live close to refugees can be seen as a luxury good.
R31|Learning from man or machine: Spatial aggregation and house price prediction|House prices vary with location. At the same time the border between two neighboring housing markets tends to be fuzzy. When we seek to explain or predict house prices we need to correct for spatial price variation. A much used way is to include neighborhood dummy variables. In general, it is not clear how to choose a spatial subdivision in the vast space of all possible spatial aggregations. We take a biologically inspired approach, where diﬀerent spatial aggregations mutate and recombine according to their explanatory power in a standard hedonic housing market model. We ﬁnd that the genetic algorithm consistently ﬁnds aggregations that outperform conventional aggregation both in and out of sample. A comparison of best aggregations of diﬀerent runs of the genetic algorithm shows that even though they converge to a similar high explanatory power, they tend to be genetically and economically diﬀerent. Diﬀerences tend to be largely conﬁned to areas with few housing market transactions.
R31|Inequality, Frictional Assignment and Home-ownership|Cross-city variation in the rate of home-ownership and the relative costs of renting and owning are studied using a model of frictional assignment. Houses of different types are built by a competitive construction industry and either rented in Walrasian markets or sold through a process of competitive search to households. Households differ with regard to their permanent income and sort over house types and housing tenure at each point in time. Along a balanced growth path, both the composition of the city's housing stock and the rate of home-ownership depend on the distributions of income, construction costs, and housing amenities. In the absence of either financial frictions or minimum house size requirements, higher income households live in better houses and are more likely on average to be homeowners than lower income ones. A calibrated version illustrates the extent to which income/wealth inequality alone can ac- count for variation in home-ownership and the price-rent ratio both within and across cities.
R31|Housing and the business cycle revisited|I present a multisectoral DSGE model with housing, real frictions, and variable capital utilization that generates aggregate and sectoral co-movements due to uncorrelated sector-specific shocks. Major advances are the robust positive correlations of residential investment with house prices and business investment. In addition, business investment is lagging other economic activities. The key improvements are adjustment costs to business investment. I identify the parameters of the exogenous shock processes, business adjustment costs, and variable capital utilization with Bayesian estimation; the results confirm those obtained from earlier work in this field.
R31|The propagation of regional shocks in housing markets: Evidence from oil price shocks in Canada|Shocks to the demand for housing that originate in one region may seem important only for that regional housing market. We provide evidence that such shocks can also affect housing markets in other regions. Our analysis focuses on the response of Canadian housing markets to oil price shocks. Oil price shocks constitute an important source of exogenous regional variation in income in Canada because oil production is highly geographically concentrated. We document that, at the national level, real oil price shocks account for 11% of the variability in real house price growth over time. At the regional level, we find that unexpected increases in the real price of oil raise housing demand and real house prices not only in oil-producing regions, but also in other regions. We develop a theoretical model of the propagation of real oil price shocks across regions that helps understand this finding. The model differentiates between oil-producing and non-oil-producing regions and incorporates multiple sectors, trade between provinces, government redistribution, and consumer spending on fuel. We empirically confirm the model prediction that oil price shocks are propagated to housing markets in non-oil-producing regions by the government redistribution of oil revenue and by increased interprovincial trade.
R31|Housing prices and mortgage credit in Luxembourg|This paper investigates the interaction between residential housing prices and mortgage credit in Luxembourg over the period 1980Q1-2017Q1. We use a vector error correction framework to model this interaction and allow for feedback effects between the two variables. In the long-run, higher housing prices lead to a mortgage credit expansion, which in turn puts upward pressure on prices. The growing demand for mortgage credit is also sustained by positive net migration to Luxembourg. Construction activity is another important determinant of housing prices, in line with existing supply-side limitations on dwelling availability. These dynamics lead to a structural imbalance between housing supply and demand, with the latter being fueled by demographic factors, tax incentives and fiscal subsidies, as well as the low interest rate environment. While price dynamics are partially explained by these structural factors, our results suggest that over the last few years residential housing prices have been characterized by a moderate, but persistent, overvaluation with respect to market fundamentals. Between 2012Q1 and 2017Q1, the average overvaluation is estimated at 6.85% but its trend is decreasing in the last quarters. Results also show that housing prices have a slow rate of adjustment to deviations from fundamentals (only 2.2% of the misalignment is corrected each quarter) and they do not directly adjust to disequilibria in the mortgage market. These _ndings are supported by impulse response analysis, which suggests that shocks to the endogenous variables lead to permanent increases in housing prices.
R31|House prices in local markets in Italy: dynamics, levels and the role of urban agglomerations|The national pattern of house price dynamics masks considerable heterogeneity across local areas and markets; disparities are even higher looking at house price levels. In this paper we describe these structural differences across Italy, with particular focus on the role of metropolitan areas over the last 50 years. Our analysis shows that housing cycles differ across geographical areas and urban agglomerations both in depth and length. Cycles reflect metropolises’ price dynamics in all the macro-areas except the South, where the biggest cities and the other towns exhibit similar dynamics. Geographical disparities are even stronger if we turn to price levels: following a period of relative convergence in the second half of the 1990s, the gap between areas widened again. Finally, using data covering the last decade, we analyse house price heterogeneity across areas, including the hinterland of metropolises, taking into account the contribution of a set of relevant socio-economic characteristics, the first one being income, to the distribution of house prices.
R31|The potential of big housing data: an application to the Italian real-estate market|We present a new dataset of housing sales advertisements (ads) taken from Immobiliare.it, a popular online portal for real estate services in Italy. This dataset fills a big gap in Italian housing market statistics, namely the absence of detailed physical characteristics for houses sold. The granularity of online data also makes possible timely analyses at a very detailed geographical level. We first address the main problem of the dataset, i.e. the mismatch between ads and actual housing units - agencies have incentives for posting multiple ads for the same unit. We correct this distortion by using machine learning tools and provide evidence about its quantitative relevance. We then show that the information from this dataset is consistent with existing official statistical sources. Finally, we present some unique applications for these data. For example, we provide first evidence at the Italian level that online interest in a particular area is a leading indicator of prices. Our work is a concrete example of the potential of large user-generated online databases for institutional applications.
R31|The Duration in the Market of New Housing in Mexico|In this article we study the market duration of new housing built by developers in Mexico between 2013 and 2015. In particular, this document discusses whether the physical characteristics of housing, state of location, date put on sale, time of construction, the initial price and the size of the developer have any effect on the duration of new houses in the market. We use a survival analysis Cox model. The most important results indicate that the probability of a new house being sold between t and t+1 (hazard rate) decreases with time and, in general, is lower for units of larger size, those that took much time on the construction process, and those constructed by small developers.
R31|Housing finance in France in 2017|Boosted by very low interest rates, despite a very slight rise during the year, activity in the residential real-estate market remained very dynamic in 2017, as shown by the 15% growth in existing home sales. In addition, prices for both new and existing properties remained on an upward trend, rising by 3.7% and 3.9% respectively, while the latter market segment recorded price increases of 8.6% and 4.9% in Paris and the Île-de-France region respectively. Reflecting this favourable environment, annual new housing loans extended by French banks (EUR 272.1 billion in 2017) continued to grow at a sustained pace, especially in the first half of 2017, before declining in the second half. According to monthly monitoring data collected by the General Secretariat of the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR), new lending excluding loan transfers and renegotiations, increased by 21% in 2017. Unlike last year, however, the share of loan transfers gradually declined over the year, from a peak at 37% of new lending in January 2017 to 8% in December 2017. Continuing its trend of the second half of 2017, new residential lending slowed sharply at the start of 2018: as a result of the fall in loan transfers and renegotiations, the 12-month cumulated new lending was down by 36.5% in April. In this context, the year-on-year growth rate of outstanding loans, which had reached 6.3% in October 2017, also gradually slowed: at end-April 2018, it stood at only 5.5%. As in previous years, banks’ risk exposure on housing loans in France remained contained: ? Due to the continuing fall in interest rates, fixed-rate loans accounted for almost all new lending (98.7%) and an ever-increasing share of outstanding loans (up 2.7 percentage points (pts) to 93.4%); a rise in interest rates would therefore have a very limited impact on borrowers' credit risk; ? Banks still appear relatively well-shielded against a price shock, even though the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio for outstanding loans deteriorated slightly by 0.3 pp to 72.3%; ? The vast majority of outstanding loans are secured (96.8%), by guarantees that protect the banks, such as sureties; ? Lastly, the ratio of non-performing loans fell for the second time since the financial crisis, down 6 basis points (bps) to 1.43%; in addition, the cost of risk as a ratio of outstanding loans decreased for the third consecutive year, by 1.4 bps to 4.3 bps However, several developments call for continued vigilance: ? Despite the stabilisation of loan rates, even at very low levels, the effect of the rise in prices and resulting tensions on households' purchasing power could no longer be offset. Even though borrower solvency remains the main criterion of analysis, rather than the value of assets financed, certain lending standards applied by French banks continued to deteriorate in 2017: the average loan amount (up 4.9 % to EUR 161.4 thousand) and the debt ratio (up 2.2 months to 4.9 years) thus reached record highs; the initial loan maturity, which increased by 4 months to 19 years, and the debt service ratio, which rose slightly by 0.2 pp to 29.7%, were still below their respective highs recorded in 2008 (20 years) and 2009 (31.6%); ? Despite the stabilisation of the average liability cost and the overhead rate, the net margin ratio, as measured by the ACPR, continued to deteriorate in 2017 due to the continued rapid decline in the average interest rate on outstanding housing loans; this decrease in the profitability of housing loans is particularly problematic as it is no longer, since the start of 2018, offset by the large volumes of loan transfers and renegotiation fees that banks had benefited from in 2017. In addition, the availability of the income derived from borrower insurance, generally obtained from the lending bank when setting up the loan, could be threatened by the adoption of the Bourquin amendment, which now makes it possible to change contract every year.
R31|Tourism, amenities, and welfare in an urban setting|Using data on Italian cities, we document that over the period of 2001–2011, the number of establishments and employment in some key service industries are positively related to the inflow of tourists. We then build a general equilibrium model of small open cities encompassing these empirical features to study the impact of tourism on endogenous consumption amenities, factors’ allocation across sectors, prices, and welfare. We also study the interplay of exogenous historical amenities, tourism, and residents welfare in a system of two cities. When residents are immobile, they are unambiguously better off when they live in a city with richer historical amenities, and thus more tourists, than the other city. When residents are mobile and their welfare is equalized between cities, the strength of consumption amenities becomes crucial to determine whether they are better off living in an urban system where cities are heterogeneous or similar in terms of historical amenities.
R31|Quantifying the costs of land use regulation: Evidence from New Zealand|Land use regulations vary in the restrictions and enforcement that applies across time and space. That variation makes it difficult to determine when land use regulations hinder the flexibility of housing supply using a single time series method, so a range of approaches and country case studies may be most appropriate to test impacts. We use four methods to test for impacts of land use regulation in New Zealand and extend existing efforts by utilising unit record data on house sales and construction type. We find: (i) house prices outstrip construction prices in many New Zealand cities; (ii) land with a house is valued 4 and 9 times higher than land with no house attached; (iii) density and house prices are only weakly correlated; (iv) prices of apartments and townhouses are much higher than their construction costs. All four results suggest land use regulations play a material role in constraining housing supply, driving up house prices. Local geography, such as steep terrain, might matter, but relative price differentials between land with a house and land without a house suggest only a minor role for geography.
R31|Does gentrification displace poor households? An ‘identification-via-interaction’ approach|My theoretical model motivates an ‘identification-via-interaction’ (IvI) approach that separates the causal impact of gentrification on poor exits from endogenous channels. In the empirical analysis, I create a measure of gentrification as the increase in the share of neighbourhood residents who hold a university degree based on the UK Census for 1991, 2001 and 2011. Applying the IvI approach for a sample of private renters from the British Household Panel Survey, 1991–2008, I find that gentrification results in displacement. The IvI approach has general applications in estimating causal relationships where variables are highly endogenous.
R31|The Role of Demand in Land Re-Development|Several governments throughout the world apply policies aimed to re-mediate and recover vacant or idle land for other uses. This paper provides estimates of the price sensitivity of redevelopment, a crucial parameter for the success of these policies. My cross-sectional estimates measure how prices affect long-run conversion of unused or underused previously developed land in England. In order to solve the classical problem in the estimation of supply elasticities from market outcomes, I exploit school quality information and school admission boundaries to obtain a demand-shifter that is orthogonal to re-development costs. Estimation is conducted using a boundary discontinuity design based on this instrument. Results show that the probability of re-development is effectively sensitive to housing prices. Estimates indicate that a 1% increase in housing prices leads to a 0.07 percentage point reduction in the fraction of hectares containing brownfield land. Back-of-the envelope calculations using these estimates suggest that a large increase of 21% in prices across locations, or an equivalent subsidy, would be required to eliminate most of these vacant or underused land plots.
R31|The Economic Impacts of Constraining Home Investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the 'Swiss Second Home Initiative', which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R31|The changing geography of intergenerational mobility|Does the importance of your family background on how far you get in adulthood also depend on where you grow up? For many countries, Britain included, a paucity of data has made this a question with very little reliable evidence to answer. To redress this evidence lacuna, we present a new analysis of intergenerational mobility across three cohorts in England and Wales using linked decennial census microdata. As well as testing the robustness of existing survey evidence on mobility trends over time, this large dataset permits analysis to be undertaken at a more geographically disaggregated level than was previously feasible. Evidence is presented on occupational wages, home ownership and education. Our new analysis shows a slight decline in occupation-wage mobility and a substantial decline in home ownership mobility over the late 20th century in England and Wales, while the picture for educational mobility is less clear. Focusing on the most recent cohort, we find marked geographic differences in mobility. We find that occupation-wage mobility is exceptionally high in London, while ex-industrial and mining areas experience the lowest rates of mobility. Areas with low occupation-wage mobility were more likely to vote to leave the European Union in the 2016 referendum. Home ownership mobility is negatively correlated with house prices and not correlated with occupation-wage mobility, suggesting that geographical comparisons based on one dimension of mobility need not always align with those based on alternative measures.
R31|Stringency of Land-Use Regulation: Building Heights in US Cities|This paper has explored the stringency of land-use regulation in US cities, focusing on building heights. Substantial stringency is present when regulated heights are far below free-market heights, while stringency is lower when the two values are closer. Using FAR as a height index, theory shows that the elasticity of the land price with respect to FAR is a proper stringency measure. This elasticity is estimated for five US cities by combining CoStar land-sales data with FAR values from local zoning maps, and the results show that New York and Washington, D.C., have stringent height regulations, while Chicago’s and San Francisco’s regulations are less stringent (Boston represents an intermediate case).
R31|Land Use Regulations, Migration and Rising House Price Dispersion in the U.S|This paper develops and solves a dynamic spatial equilibrium model of regional housing markets in which house prices are jointly determined with location-to-location migration flows. Agents optimize period-by-period and decide whether to remain where they are or migrate to a new location at the start of each period. The agent’s optimal location choice and the resultant migration process is shown to be Markovian with the transition probabilities across all location pairs given as non-linear functions of wage and housing cost differentials, which are time varying and endogenously determined. On the supply side, in each location the construction firms build new houses by combining land and residential structures; with housing supplies endogenously responding to migration flows. The model can be viewed as an example of a dynamic network where regional housing markets interact with each other via migration flows that function as a source of spatial spill-overs. It is shown that the deterministic version of the model has a unique equilibrium and a unique balanced growth path. We estimate the state-level supplies of new residential land from the model using housing market and urban land acreage data. These estimates are shown to be significantly negatively correlated with the Wharton Residential Land Use Regulatory Index. The model can simultaneously account for the rise in house price dispersion and the interstate migration in the U.S.. Counterfactual simulations suggest that reducing either land supply differentials or migration costs could significantly lower house price dispersion.
R31|Urban Wage Premia, Cost of Living, and Collective Bargaining|In this paper, we estimate the urban wage premia (UWP) in Italy, with its economy characterized by the interplay between collective bargaining and spatial heterogeneity in the cost of living. We implement a reduced-form regression analysis using both nominal and real (in temporal and spatial terms) wages. Our dataset for the 2005-2015 period includes, for workers’ characteristics, unique administrative data provided by Italian Social Security Institute and, for the local CPI computation, housing prices collected by Italian Revenue Agency. For employees covered by collective bargaining, we find a zero UWP in nominal terms and a negative and non-negligible UWP in real terms (-5%). To capture the role played by centralized wage settings, we also consider various groups of self-employed workers, who are not covered by national labour agreements, while living in the same locations and enjoying the same amenities as employees. We find that the UWP for self-employed workers are up to 25 times greater than for employees. Moreover, sorting proves more notable in the case of self-employed workers, i.e. the larger UWP provide the higher incentives for high-skilled individuals and better firms to locate in cities. Our findings are confirmed on extending the analysis along the wage distribution.
R31|Causes of Vacancies in the Housing Market – A Literature Review|We review the existing literature on the causes of vacancies in the housing market. First, we present a detailed overview of theoretical approaches that may explain the mechanisms causing vacancies under the assumptions of a standard market model, the search and matching theory and behavioral economics. Concerning the latter, we propose a new framework to explain vacancies in the housing market in the context of prospect theory which could be extended by future research. Second, we formulate hypotheses based on these theories regarding the causes and the extent of vacancies. Third, we evaluate the validity of the hypotheses by referring to the existing empirical literature while comparing the data, samples and methods employed in the various studies. The main findings of our literature review are (1) that there is considerable room to extend existing theoretical models and (2) that some hypotheses have either been investigated by the empirical literature only to a limited degree or have not been investigated at all. We also suggest that (3) a social welfare analysis that takes the specific type of vacancy into account is highly relevant for housing policy decisions.
R31|Does Regulation Discourage Investors? Sales Price Effects of Rent Controls in Germany|We analyze the extent to which sales prices for residential housing react to rent-price regulation. To this end, we exploit changes in apartment prices across the regulation treatment threshold. We examine a quasi-natural design in the German federal state of Brandenburg using transaction price data provided by the committee of evaluation experts. Brandenburg introduced both a capping limit for existing rental contracts as well as a price ceiling for new contracts for municipalities with tight housing markets in 2014. Whether or not a municipality falls under this classification is based upon a municipality’s housing market characteristics, which are translated into a specific score. This allows us to employ a regression discontinuity design with a sharp cutoff point. We compare sales prices in municipalities that are located marginally above the assignment threshold with the prices in those slightly below. Our results suggest that the regulations reduced sales prices for affected apartments by 20–30 %.
R31|The wider impacts of high-technology employment: Evidence from U.S. cities|Innovative, high-technology industries are commonly described as drivers of regional development. ‘Tech’ workers earn high wages, but they are also said to generate knock-on effects throughout the local economies that host them, spurring growth in jobs and wages in nontradable activities. At the same time, in iconic high-tech agglomerations like the San Francisco Bay Area, the home of Silicon Valley, the success of the tech industry creates tensions, in part as living costs rise beyond the reach of many non-tech workers. Across a large sample of U.S. cities, this paper explores these issues systematically. Combining annual data on wages, employment and prices from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Consumer Price Index, it estimates how growth in tradable tech employment affects the real, living-cost deflated wages of local workers in nontradable sectors. Results indicate that high-technology employment has significant, positive, but modest effects on the real wages of workers in nontradable sectors. These effects appear to be spread consistently across different kinds of nontradable activities. In terms of substantive wider impacts, tech appears benign, though fairly ineffectual.
R31|U.S. metropolitan house price dynamics|Using data for 70 U.S. metropolitan areas, this study explores spatial heterogeneity in house price dynamics. We use recent advances in panel econometrics that allow for spatial heterogeneity, cross-sectional dependence, and non-stationary but cointegrated data. We test for spatial differences and analyze the relationship between the price elasticity of housing supply and the income elasticity of prices, as well as bubble size and duration. The long-term elasticity of house prices with respect to aggregate personal income averages 0.81, but varies considerably across metropolitan areas. The long-term income elasticity generally is greater in the more supply-inelastic metropolitan areas, and we show that bubble size and duration are inversely related to supply elasticity. Also short-term momentum and reversion dynamics show substantial spatial heterogeneity.
R31|Capital Scarcity and Industrial Decline: Evidence from 172 Real Estate Booms in China|In geographically segmented credit markets, local real estate booms can divert capital away from manufacturing firms, create capital scarcity, increase local real interest rates, lower real wages, and cause underinvestment and relative decline in the industrial sector. Using exogenous variation in the administrative land supply across 172 Chinese cities, we show that the predicted variation in real estate prices does indeed cause substantially higher capital costs for manufactoring firms, reduce their bank lending, lower their capital intensity and labor productivity, weaken firms’ financial performance, and reduce their TFP growth by economically significant magnitudes. This evidence highlights macroeconomic stability concerns associated with real estate booms.
R31|Estimation and Updating Methods for Hedonic Valuation|Purpose – We use a large and rich data set consisting of over 123,000 single-family houses sold in Switzerland between 2005 and 2017 to investigate the accuracy and volatility of different methods for estimating and updating hedonic valuation models. Design/methodology/approach – We apply six estimation methods (linear least squares, robust regression, mixed effects regression, random forests, gradient boosting, and neural networks) and two updating methods (moving and extending windows). Findings – The gradient boosting method yields the greatest accuracy while the robust method provides the least volatile predictions. There is a clear trade-off across methods depending on whether the goal is to improve accuracy or avoid volatility. The choice between moving and extending windows has only a modest effect on the results. Originality/value – This paper compares a range of linear and machine learning techniques in the context of moving or extending window scenarios that are used in practice but which have not been considered in prior research. The techniques include robust regression, which has not previously been used in this context. The data updating allows for analysis of the volatility in addition to the accuracy of predictions. The results should prove useful in improving hedonic models used by property tax assessors, mortgage underwriters, valuation firms, and regulatory authorities.
R31|Short-term rentals and the housing market: Quasi-experimental evidence from Airbnb in Los Angeles|Online short-term housing rental platforms such as Airbnb have grown spectacularly in recent years. 18 out 88 cities in Los Angeles County have severely restricted short-term rentals by adopting Home Sharing Ordinances. We apply a panel regression-discontinuity design around the cities' borders. Ordinances reduced listings by 50% and residential property prices by 3%. Difference-in-difference estimates show that rents also decreased by 3%. These estimates imply large effects of Airbnb on property values in areas attractive to tourists (e.g. by 14% within 5km of Downtown LA).
R31|Gentrification and pioneer businesses|We study gentrification at a micro-geographic scale using information on residents and businesses in New York from 1990 to 2010. We exploit atypical location decisions of businesses to identify the sectors that usually locate in wealthy neighborhoods but are overrepresented in poor soon-to-gentrify areas. These pioneer sectors - mostly cultural, recreational, and creative industries - help us to better predict gentrification at its early stage: including the presence of pioneers improves the accuracy of the prediction of future gentrifying spots by up to 200 meters. We show that pioneers foster gentrification through the types of workers they hire, their signal as to the future prospects of a neighborhood, and their effect on the subsequent arrival of consumption amenities.
R31|The relation between supply constraints and house price dynamics in the Netherlands|We analyze the effect of supply constraints on the dynamics of house prices in the Netherlands. In particular, we look at whether income shocks lead to stronger house price increases in regions characterized with higher supply constraints. We use a panel dataset that contains 316 municipalities over the years 1987-2016. Municipalities are divided in three equally sized groups according to the extent of supply constraints present in each municipality. Our results suggest that income shocks lead to significantly larger increases in house prices in municipalities that are relatively more supply constrained. This holds both in the short- and the long-term. The degree of mean reversion and persistence, however, do not seem to significantly differ between the three groups of municipalities.
R31|Does Housing Vintage Matter? Exploring the Historic City Center of Amsterdam|A home is typically thought of as a bundle of land and structure. Land is supplied inelastically and is non-reproducible. Land values are therefore affected by a number of demand factors. Conceptually, structures are easily produced, and thus are supplied elastically. Under elastic supply, it is reasonable to assume that replacement cost should be equivalent to the value of the structure for new properties. Here, we examine how particular structure characteristics may introduce heterogeneity into these demand and supply relationships. In other words, how do structure vintages influence price dynamics. Older vintages are not easily reproducible leading to the value of an older vintage to potentially diverge from its replacement cost. To test our hypotheses, we employ a nonlinear model in a Bayesian structural timeseries approach that explicitly disentangles structure and land values to identify vintage effects separately from physical deterioration and land values. We find large differences in price dynamics between four distinct vintages of Amsterdam old city center apartments. Between 1999 - 2016, new construction had an average return of 1.7%, with a standard deviation of 2.4%. On the other hand, properties build in the 19th century had an average return of 3.6% with a standard deviation of 6.1%, during the same period.
R31|'We'll Always Have Paris': Out-of-Country Buyers in the Housing Market|This paper studies the investment decisions and price impact of non-resident foreigners in the Paris housing market, employing unique micro-level transaction data over the period 1992–2016. We find that these “out-of-country” buyers generally purchase relatively small but high-quality properties in desirable neighborhoods and in areas with high ratios of compatriots. Ceteris paribus, they pay higher prices, hold for longer, and realize lower capital gains, highlighting the importance of information asymmetries and search costs in residential real estate. Crucially, however, out-of-country buyers’ quality-controlled purchase prices are also positively affected by home-country economic conditions, which suggests that global variation in the willingness-to-pay for real estate affects pricing in hotspots such as Paris. When instrumenting out-of-country demand, we find that it has pushed up prices of ex ante less valuable properties that have nonetheless been exposed to such demand.
R31|The Geography Channel of House Price Appreciation|We develop a theory whereby increased demand for living in housing-supply-inelastic regions raises aggregate house prices, and we show that this channel contributed significantly to the U.S. house price boom from 2000 to 2006. As an example of our framework, we show that a decline in manufacturing, an industry concentrated in elastic areas, raises national house prices. Our framework also predicts that changes in the price-rent ratio, from interest rates or other changes in the mortgage market, increase relative locational demand for high-rent areas, which are typically inelastic. Changes in locational demand therefore fill in a missing link between changes in aggregate credit conditions and aggregate house prices. We show evidence of this in the data.
R31|High-Frequency Impact of Monetary Policy and Macroeconomic Surprises on US MSAs and Aggregate US Housing Returns and Volatility: A GJR-GARCH Approach|This paper explores the impact of monetary policy and macroeconomic surprises on the U.S housing market returns and volatility at the Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) and aggregate level using a Glosten–Jagannathan-Runkle generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GJR-GARCH) model. Using daily data and sampling periods which cover both the conventional and unconventional monetary policy periods, empirical results show that monetary policy surprises have a greater impact on the volatility of housing market returns across time with particularly pronounced effect during the conventional monetary policy period. We also show that macroeconomic surprises do not have a significant impact on housing returns for most MSAs for the full sample, conventional and unconventional monetary policy periods
R31|Macroeconomic Uncertainty and the Comovement in Buying versus Renting in the United States|This paper characterizes the sources of the comovement in the U.S metropolitan buy-rent growth rate. The analysis is based on quarterly buy-rent indices from 1982:Q1 to 2016:Q4. To this end, we used the dynamic factor model to decompose the index into national and local factors. The national component contributed more to the variation in the buy-rent indices relative to the local component with variance decomposition values of 72% and 27% respectively albeit this varied across the cities. We further examined the sensitivity of the national buy-rent factor to macroeconomic uncertainty. Our full sample results show that uncertainty has a significant negative effect on the buy-rent behavior thus favouring buying a home as a wealth accumulation channel relative to renting a similar home. The results from the recursive estimation further confirmed a dominant negative relationship with fewer periods of positive relationship. The implications of these findings are drawn.
R31|The Role of Housing Sentiment in Forecasting US Home Sales Growth: Evidence from a Bayesian Compressed Vector Autoregressive Model|Accurate forecasts of home sales can provide valuable information for not only policymakers, but also financial institutions and real estate professionals. Against this backdrop, the objective of our paper is to analyze the role of consumers’ home buying attitudes in forecasting quarterly US home sales growth. Our results show that the home sentiment index in standard classical and Minnesota prior-based Bayesian VARs fail to add to the forecasting accuracy of the growth of home sales derived from standard economic variables already included in the models. However, when shrinkage is achieved by compressing the data using a Bayesian compressed VAR (instead of the parameters as in the BVAR), growth of US home sales can be forecasted more accurately, with the housing market sentiment improving the accuracy of the forecasts relative to the information contained in economic variables only.
R31|Time-varying impact of uncertainty shocks on the US housing market|This paper investigates the impact of uncertainty shocks on the housing market of the United States using the time-varying parameter factor augmented vector autoregression (TVP-FAVAR). We use a comprehensive quarterly time-series dataset on real economic activity, price, and financial variables, besides housing market variables, covering the period 1963:Q1 to 2014:Q3. In addition to housing prices, we also consider variables related to home sales, permits and starts. In general, the results of the cumulative response of housing variables to a one standard deviation positive uncertainty shock at the one-, four-, eight-, and twelve-quarter-horizon tends to change over time, both in terms of sign and magnitude, with the uncertainty shock primarily negatively affecting the housing variables, in particular prices, permits and starts, in longer-runs (i.e., two- and three-years-ahead horizons).
R31|Heterogeneity, Frictional Assignment and Home-Ownership|A model of the distribution of home-ownership in a city is developed. Heterogeneous houses are built by a competitive development industry and either rented competitively or sold through directed search to households which differ in wealth and sort over housing types. In the absence of both financial restrictions and constraints on house characteristics, higher income households are more likely to own and lower quality housing is more likely to be rented. Calibrated to match average features of housing markets within U.S. cities, the model is qualitatively consistent with U.S. data on the relationships between observed differences in median income, inequality, median household age, and construction/land costs across cities and both home-ownership and the average cost of owning vs. renting. Policies designed to improve housing affordability raise both housing quality and ownership for lower income households while lowering housing quality (but not ownership) for high income ones.
R31|The Effect of Zoning on Housing Prices|Zoning regulations provide benefits, but they also restrict housing supply and hence raise prices. This paper quantifies their importance by comparing prices to the marginal costs of supply at different points in time. For detached houses, marginal costs comprise the dwelling structure and the land that other home owners need to forego. Relative to our estimates of these costs, we find that, as of 2016, zoning raised detached house prices 73 per cent above marginal costs in Sydney, 69 per cent in Melbourne, 42 per cent in Brisbane and 54 per cent in Perth. Zoning has also raised the price of apartments well above the marginal cost of supply, especially in Sydney. We emphasise that this is not the amount that housing prices would fall in the absence of zoning. The effect of zoning has increased dramatically over the past two decades, likely due to existing restrictions binding more tightly as demand has risen.
R31|DSGE Reno: Adding a Housing Block to a Small Open Economy Model|We propose a straightforward approach to adding a housing sector to a large-scale open economy dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model. The model has four intermediate sectors: non-traded, housing, traded, and resources. Households are assumed to consume housing services as part of their consumption bundle and gain utility from holding housing stock. The utility specification increases households' willingness to hold housing stock and implies a relatively high sensitivity of housing investment to monetary policy. We estimate the model on Australian data and find that our model is better able to match a number of empirical regularities compared to a model without housing. These regularities include the sensitivity of housing investment to interest rates and the persistence of aggregate output's response to monetary policy shocks. We then use the model to explore the role of the housing sector in the rebalancing of the Australian economy following the end of the mining boom. First, we find that most of the recent increase in housing investment has been an endogenous response to the large fall in commodity prices and associated declines in interest rates. Second, the pick-up in housing investment has significantly supported the economy over the past five years, ading a ½ percentage point to GDP growth and a ¼ percentage point to inflation, in year-ended terms.
R31|House Prices, Home Equity, and Personal Debt Composition|Using a monthly panel dataset of individuals' debt composition including mortgage and non-mortgage consumer credit, we show that house price changes can explain a significant fraction of personal debt composition dynamics. We exploit the variation in local house price growth as shocks to homeowners' housing wealth to study the consequential adjustment of personal debt composition. To account for local demand shocks and disentangle the housing collateral channel from the wealth effect, we use renters and non-equity-withdrawal homeowners in the same region as control groups. We present direct evidence that homeowners reoptimize their debt structure by using withdrawn home equity to pay down comparatively expensive short-term non-mortgage debt during a housing boom, unsecured consumer loans in particular. We also find that homeowners withdraw home equity to finance their entrepreneurial activities. Our study sheds new light on the dynamics of personal debt composition in response to changes in house prices.
R31|The dynamic impact of monetary policy on regional housing prices in the United States|This paper uses a factor-augmented vector autoregressive model to examine the impact of monetary policy shocks on housing prices across metropolitan and micropolitan regions. To simultaneously estimate the model parameters and unobserved factors we rely on Bayesian estimation and inference. Policy shocks are identified using high-frequency suprises around policy announcements as an external instrument. Impulse reponse functions reveal differences in regional housing price responses, which in some cases are substantial. The heterogeneity in policy responses is found to be significantly related to local regulatory environments and housing supply elasticities. Moreover, housing prices responses tend to be similar within states and adjacent regions in neighboring states.
R31|Heterogeneity, Frictional Assignment And Home-ownership|A model of frictional assignment is developed to study the composition of housing units and households across city-level ownership and rental markets. Heterogeneous houses are built by a competitive development industry and either rented competitively or sold through directed search to households which differ in wealth and sort over housing types. Even in the absence of financial restrictions and constraints on house characteristics, higher income households are more likely to own and lower quality housing is more likely to be rented. When calibrated to match average features of housing markets within U.S. cities, the model is qualitatively consistent with U.S. data on the relationships between observed differences in median income, inequality, median household age, and construction/land costs across cities and both home-ownership and the average cost of owning vs. renting. Policies designed to improve housing affordability raise both housing quality and ownership for lower income households while lowering housing quality (but not ownership) for high income ones.
R31|Actual Condition Of Vacant Houses And Vacancy Of The Condominium In Japanese Local Cities? Central Areas|In Japan, decline of the central urban area due to the suburbanization of various functions associated with the progress of motorization is posing to be a great challenge. In addition, in recent years, an increase in vacant houses has become an issue all over Japan due to population decrease and the aging population. There is also concern that the number of vacant houses will increase in central urban areas. In this research, we grasped the actual conditions of vacant houses and vacancy of the condominium in central urban areas of 35 local cities in Japan and analyzed location trends in the target 5 cities about vacant houses and 35 cities about vacancy of condominiums. We investigated the vacant houses and vacancy of condominiums in each central urban area and analyzed the location trend of vacant houses and vacancy of condominiums about the following points; ?Distance to station?, ?Road contact condition?, ?Floor area ratio designation?, ?Price? and ?age of a building?. We can mention to the tendency of vacant houses location is the house which is located far from station, have contact with narrow road, and have relatively small building area. About Vacancy of the condominium it is not related with a price but vacancy rate of condominium is high at the condominiums constructed in bubble economy period.
R31|Quota des logements sociaux et coûts liés à la scolarisation des jeunes enfants|Nous évaluons les coûts liés à la satisfaction du quota SRU lorsque la construction de logements sociaux nécessite aussi la construction d’écoles maternelles et primaires sur le territoire communal pour y accueillir les jeunes enfants. Ces coûts sont évalués pour les 45 communes de Seine-et-Marne soumises à l’obligation de rattrapage en 2015. Nous trouvons qu’en moyenne, les coûts liés à la construction des écoles (foncier inclus) représentent 75 % de l’investissement à la charge des communes, les subventions aux logements sociaux comptant pour les 25 % restants. Pour certaines communes, les hausses d'impôts locaux nécessaires pour financer ces coûts sont non négligeables et peuvent atteindre jusqu'à 25 % tandis que pour d'autres, la contribution des nouveaux ménages du parc social à la taxe d'habitation (ou, de manière équivalente, le montant compensé par l'Etat au titre des dégrèvements) et les augmentations de la dotation globale de fonctionnement modèrent très fortement les hausses d’impôts locaux.
R31|The Cost of Agglomeration: Land Prices in Cities|We develop a new methodology to estimate the elasticity of urban costs with respect to city population using French land price data. Our preferred estimate, which handles a number of estimation concerns, stands at 0.041. Our approach also yields a number of intermediate outputs of independent interest such as a distance gradient for land prices and the elasticity of unit land prices with respect to city population. For the latter, our preferred estimate is 0.72.
R31|Picture or Playground: Valuing Coastal Amenities|As the world continues to urbanise, understanding housing market preferences can help planners accommodate the growth of cities. Housing is a bundle of both structural attributes and locational amenities, with “blue space” coastal amenities including both aesthetic (picture) and recreational (playground) services. We examine the effect of these different “blue space” coastal amenities, using both a novel measure of views, suitable for large datasets, and a dataset of almost 500,000 real estate listings, covering both sale and rental markets in Ireland for the period 2006-2017. We find that proximity to beaches and similar shorelines is rewarded in both sale and rental markets, as is the breadth and depth of sea-views. There is no evidence that urban sale or rental price premiums are larger (or smaller) than rural ones. However, there is clear evidence that sale price premiums are typically larger than their rental equivalents. In addition, sale price premiums are larger in times of falling prices, a finding consistent with “property ladder” effects in tighter markets.
R31|Gentrification through the sale of rental housing? Evidence from Amsterdam|This paper analyzes the impact of the sale of rental housing in Amsterdam on the local housing market. This increases the supply of owner-occupied housing, but can also contribute to gentrification associated with the inflow of different household groups. Earlier literature focused on the former effect and reported a negative price effect. We take a fresh look at the issue by considering the sale of private as well as social rental housing, allow for differing time trends within the municipality, controlling for area fixed effects, distinguishing between short and long-term impacts and addressing endogeneity of the sale of rental housing. The main finding is a robust gentrifying effect of the sale of private rental housing in the core area of Amsterdam.
R31|Airbnb in Paris : quel impact sur l'industrie hôtelière?|In many cities around the world short-term housing platforms have become an alternative in the eyes of tourists. These new players, led by Airbnb, are disrupting the market, raising concerns from the hotel industry and public authorities. Using data from hotels and Airbnb in Paris, this paper proposes a new methodology for measuring the competitive pressure exerted by Airbnb on the hotel industry. The results indicate that an increase in the number of Airbnb hosts close to a hotel leads the hotel to reduce its price. This effect is amplified on weekend evenings.
R31|Housing Market Dynamics with Search Frictions|This paper develops a business cycle model of the housing market with search frictions and entry of both buyers and sellers. The housing market exhibits a well-established cyclical component, which features three stylized facts: prices move in the same direction as sales and the number of houses for sale, but opposite to the time it takes to sell a house. These stylized facts imply that in the data vacancies and the number of buyers are positively correlated, i.e. that the Beveridge Curve is upward sloping. A baseline search and matching model of the housing market is unable to match these stylized facts because it inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge Curve. With free entry of both buyers and sellers, our model reproduces the positive correlation between prices, sales, and housing vacancies, and matches the stylized facts qualitatively and quantitatively.
R31|Search and Credit Frictions in the Housing Market|This paper develops a model of the housing market with search and credit frictions. The interaction between the two frictions gives rise to a novel channel through which the financial sector affects prices and liquidity in the housing market. Furthermore, an interesting feature of the model is that both frictions combined lead to multiple equilibria. A numerical exercise suggests that credit shocks have a relatively larger impact on mortgage debt and liquidity than on prices.
R31|Credit Constraints, House Prices, and the Impact of Life Cycle Dynamics|"How does the life cycle|namely, mortality risk and the expectation at birth of a rising age-profile of income and assets--impact house price dynamics? This paper investigates how equilibrium house prices respond to a tightening in credit constraints under two different but similarly calibrated models: one an infinite-horizon setting and the other a life-cycle environment. The main conclusion is that house price dynamics are magnified by the presence of life cycle features. Two primary explanations stand out: the distinction between stocks and flows of mortgage debt in the cross-section and the importance of gross housing tenure flows, i.e. churn."
