R32|Competition, Land Price, and City Size|Larger cities typically give rise to two effects working in opposite directions: tougher competition among firms and higher production costs. Using an urban model with substitutability of production factors and pro-competitive effects, we study how market outcome responds to city population size, land-use regulation and commuting costs. For industries with small input of land, larger cities host more firms which set lower prices whereas larger cities accommodate more firms which charge higher prices in industries with intermediate land share in production. Furthermore, for industries with high input share of land, larger cities allocate fewer firms with higher product prices. We show that softer land-use regulation and/or lower commuting costs reinforce pro-competitive effects making larger cities more attractive for residents via lower product prices and broader variety for a larger number of industries.
R32|Who Bears the Burden of Real Estate Transfer Taxes? Evidence from the German Housing Market|This paper examines the effects of real estate transfer taxes (RETT) on house prices using a rich micro dataset on German properties covering the period from 2005 to 2018. We exploit a 2006 constitutional reform that allowed states to set their own RETT rates, leading to frequent increases in states’ tax rates in subsequent years. Our monthly event study estimates indicate a price response that strongly exceeds the change in the tax burden for single transactions. I.e., twelve months after a reform, a one percentage point increase in the tax rate reduces property prices by on average 3.5%. Effects are stronger for apartments and apartment buildings than for single family houses. We interpret these results in the context of a theoretical model that accounts for the effects of RETT on a property’s resale value. If a property is expected to be traded more frequently in the future, the decline in its price can exceed the in crease in the tax burden. Moreover, larger price effects can be explained by higher bargaining power of sellers.
R32|The Beveridge curve in the housing market|As opposed to a recent criticism (according to which a model à la Pissarides inherently generates a downward sloping Beveridge curve), this preliminary theoretical paper shows that a baseline search-and-matching model is able to take into account the main distinctive features of the housing market, thus generating an upward sloping Beveridge curve.
R32|Partial ownership of local firms and zoning of neighboring towns| This paper investigates zoning in two neighboring towns in which firms are owned by investors that reside in the two towns. We find that local regulators use zoning strategically depending on the weight of local profits in social welfare. When they are high enough both towns are zoned. For intermediate values an asymmetric result emerges: only one regulator resorts to zoning despite the symmetry in the percentage of ownership of the neighboring firms. For a low weight of local profits, towns may or may not be zoned. Zoning restrictions on the location of firms are tighter when local profits are more significant for social welfare.
R32|The price of residential land for counties, ZIP codes, and census tracts in the United States|Our analysis produces three main findings for our sample: land prices in most areas increased between 2012 and 2017, land prices tended to rise faster than house prices, and land appreciated most rapidly in areas with relatively high density of structures.
R32|Retail and Place Attractiveness: The Effects of Big-box Entry on Property Values|Opponents of big-box entry argue that large retail establishments generate noise and other types of pollution and a variety of negative externalities associated with traffic. Big-box advocates, on the other hand, argue that access to a large retail market delivers not only direct economic benefits but also a variety of positive spillover effects and therefore can be considered a consumer amenity that increases the attractiveness of the entry location. To test the validity of these competing arguments, we use the entry of IKEA in Sweden as a quasi-experiment and empirically investigate whether increased access to retail affects place attractiveness, which is proxied by residential property values. We find that IKEA entry increases the prices of the properties sold in the entry cities by, on average, 4.4% or 60,425 SEK (approximately 6,400 USD), but this effect is statistically insignificant for the properties in the immediate vicinity of the new IKEA retail trade area. In addition, we observe an attenuation of the effect with distance from the new IKEA store and the associated retail trade area, where the properties located 10 km away experience a 2% price increase. Our results are in line with some previous findings regarding the effects of entry by Walmart or supermarket stores in the US and show that large retailers have the potential to increase place attractiveness, but perhaps not in the immediate vicinity of the new establishment.
R32|Retail and place attractiveness: The effects of big-box entry on property values|Opponents of big-box entry argue that large retail establishments generate noise and other types of pollution and a variety of negative externalities associated with traffic. Big-box advocates, on the other hand, argue that access to a large retail market delivers not only direct economic benefits but also a variety of positive spillover effects and therefore can be considered a consumer amenity that increases the attractiveness of the entry location. To test the validity of these competing arguments, we use the entry of IKEA in Sweden as a quasi-experiment and empirically investigate whether increased access to retail affects place attractiveness, which is proxied by residential property values. We find that IKEA entry increases the prices of the properties sold in the entry cities by, on average, 4.4% or 60,425 SEK (approximately 6,400 USD), but this effect is statistically insignificant for the properties in the immediate vicinity of the new IKEA retail trade area. In addition, we observe an attenuation of the effect with distance from the new IKEA store and the associated retail trade area, where the properties located 10 km away experience a 2% price increase. Our results are in line with some previous findings regarding the effects of entry by Walmart or supermarket stores in the US and show that large retailers have the potential to increase place attractiveness, but perhaps not in the immediate vicinity of the new establishment.
R32|Search frictions, housing prices and growth|Rising house prices have a positive impact on real GDP through the consumption effect and the construction of new houses (housing investment). Basically, the strength of this positive effect relies on a large share of homeowners (especially regarding the consumption effect). At the same time, however, a greater share of homeowners could encourage unemployment (the so-called “Oswald hypothesis”), thus damaging economic growth. This theoretical paper includes the link between housing tenure and job-search intensity in the relation between housing prices and growth. The main finding of this work is that homeownership may either reinforce or resize the effect of housing prices on economic growth.
R32|Getting on and moving up the property ladder: Real hedging in the U.S. housing market before and after the crisis|Real hedging is the practice of getting onto the property ladder in order to trade up to a larger home in the future. We define the value of the real hedge of home ownership as the difference between the risk premiums of renting and owning and explore how this value depends on local housing price dynamics and household characteristics. Controlling for the potential endogeneity of housing bubble bursts across different U.S metropolitan areas, we find a significantly higher correlation in the appreciation rates across the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller tiered house price indices in the period after the housing crisis. We conclude that real hedging has become more attractive in the period after the crisis, particularly in markets exhibiting momentum and high volatility in returns.
R32|A Panel Analysis of Polish Regional Cities Residential Price Convergence in the Primary Market|We employ two methodologies in order to identify groupings of cities and to analyse the factors which drive convergence in residential prices across Polish prime markets over the period 2007-2018. The Phillips and Sul (2007) methodology is used to identify convergence in primary residential prices in the major Polish cities. The results indicate that residential prices do not converge to a single common trend. However, we find the existence of three distinct sub-groups of cities (‘clubs’) where residential prices converge to their own steady-state paths. Using an ordered logit model, we investigate supply and demand factors determining club membership, which subsequently allocates 13 out of the 15 cities as belonging to the clubs identified by the Phillips and Sul procedure.
R32|Modelling Housing Market and Housing Price Dynamics in Croatia|Since the beginning of this century, the Croatian housing market has passed through various stages of development. Roughly, trends in this housing market could be observed through three different phases. The first period encompasses the first eight years of this century and is characterized by stable and positive movements of supply and demand indicators. The year 2008 represents the turning point towards negative trends on the Croatian housing market. This was the beginning of a crisis which lasted seven years. During this period, the demand for housing units has fallen dramatically and supply of new housing units has grown at low rates. As a result of such market developments, housing prices have decreased. Negative trends persist until 2015, when stable increase of supply indicators is perceived. Thereafter, demand side of the market starts to recover, along with housing prices which begin to rise.This research represents an attempt to identify the factors that have influenced the mentioned developments on the Croatian housing market. The significance of factors which are included in analysis is tested within the multiple regression framework. Special emphasis is placed on modelling housing prices dynamics. The results indicate that there are certain specificities of the Croatian housing market. For example, demand cannot be explained well by standard housing demand determinants. The low significance of the standard factors is even more pronounced in modelling supply side of the market. When observing the significance of housing prices in the supply and demand equations, the results show that lagged prices in both equations are statistically significant. Therefore, it can be concluded that expectations on housing market in Croatia are adaptive. Finally, supply and demand elasticities are observed as their comparison can potentially help in explaining cyclic movements in the housing market.
R32|Spatial price transmission under different policy regimes: A case of maize markets in Kenya| The aftermath of the high energy and unstable market crises globally was the unprecedented volatile and high food prices experienced throughout the Eastern and Southern Africa (ESA) region. Most governments implemented a wide range of policy instruments to mitigate and insulate domestic markets against this price hikes. Despite insulation of the domestic market, high food prices have continued unabated. Raising the question are these policies effective. The success of the policy is dependent on the government ability to implement the specific policy. Implementation of most policies in the ESA region may be described as erratic, highly discretionary, inconsistent, unexpected and sudden hence leading to policy failure and market distortion. Domestic factors and to some extent, regional factors play an important role in determination of price as opposed to international market as most country within the region are either self-sufficient or almost self-sufficient in staple foods. The aim of this study was to examine the different policy regimes implemented to mitigate against high food crises and their effects on spatial price transmission on domestic markets. . The results demonstrates evidence of long-run relationship and cointegration between surplus and deficit market under regime with little or no policy intervention. Under this regime, there was higher price transmission, faster correction in price shocks as illustrated by higher speed of adjustment and lower half-life between surplus and deficit markets. Low price transmission, price shocks taking longer to correct as illustrated by low speed of adjustment and higher half-life were observed under different policy regimes. JEL Classification: C22,D43,L13,R32,Q18?
R32|Price asymmetry and retailers heterogeneity in Brazilian gas stations|In a competitive market situation, a symmetric price transmission is expected, and the speed of adjustment of the market should be equal, no matter in which direction input prices are going (up or down). When inputs' prices increase, firms need to pass on costs to avoid negative profit situation. When they go down, firms' reaction is in a direction to avoid market share losses. Therefore, if firms react faster when inputs' prices increase than when they decrease (positive asymmetry), it means a capture of consumers' surplus by the firms. When firms' reaction is slowly when inputs' prices decrease than when they decreases (negative asymmetry), the surplus transfer is from firms to consumers. So far, studies regarding price asymmetry in Brazil used only aggregated database, which likely suffers by summation bias. In a hypothetical city with just two gas stations, one with positive asymmetric behavior and other with negative one, there is high chance that this city accepts the null of a symmetric behavior. The present study will try to overcome this problem with a gas station level dataset. The National Agency for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP) has a detailed database with weekly information for gas stations in an unbalanced database, where more than 40% of population is covered every week. This firm-level database has information as purchase and selling price for gasoline, name of gas stations, brand and complete address. This information allows answering if there is price asymmetry in Brazil at firm level. Because database has more than 2 million of observations for more than 17.000 different gas stations, it is also possible to obtain results of price asymmetry against fixed effects to check which of these effects matter to change the likelihood of firms to have price asymmetry. Results indicate that there is heterogeneity regarding price transmission among firms: 71% of gas stations had no asymmetry, 23% had a positive asymmetry pattern and 6% of them had negative asymmetry. Regarding which fixed effects could explain the probability to have a positive asymmetry, higher margins, and a minor number of rivals nearby and be a non-white flag increase the probability of having positive asymmetry. These results strength relations between market power and positive asymmetry and inaugurate a link between spatial competition and price asymmetry transmission.
R32|Firm Productivity and Cities: The Case of Colombia|In this paper we study the determinants of firm-level productivity in Colombia. We are interested in the effects of agglomeration forces that explain why manufacturing economic activity tends concentrate geographically as well as the effect of forces that can hurt productivity in high-density areas. An unfortunate major example of the latter forces in Colombia is its high levels of crime and terrorist attacks. We carry out this study by exploiting two very rich data sources: a firm-level panel which allows us to estimate firm-level productivity and a panel of municipality characteristics. To address selection and endogeneity issues in the estimation of firm-level productivity we use a control function approach. Our main findings are the following. First, scale economies do not seem to affect firm-level productivity. Second, we do find evidence of location economies (industrial specialization has a positive effect on productivity). Industrial variety, on the other hand, lowers productivity. It seems that firms in Colombia benefit from forming clusters and locating in cities with less industrial variety. We also find non-trivial effects of city fiscal performance, education level and quality, and crime and violent attacks.
R32|Recovering the Principle of Minimum Differentiation. An Iceberg Approach|The clustering of competitor outlets is a pervasive phenomenon in our cities. However, Hotelling’s principle of minimum differentiation is well-known not to hold. The attempts to modify Hotelling’s model are numerous in the literature on spatial competition, but mostly unsuccessful. We provide a new approach by endogenizing the transportation cost. In particular, we inherit a modeling technique from the literature of international trade. This is the iceberg formulation. With it, we are able to give a rationale to the agglomeration of firms in the middle of a Hotelling linear market.
R32|Tourism, amenities, and welfare in an urban setting|Using data on Italian cities, we document that over the period of 2001–2011, the number of establishments and employment in some key service industries are positively related to the inflow of tourists. We then build a general equilibrium model of small open cities encompassing these empirical features to study the impact of tourism on endogenous consumption amenities, factors’ allocation across sectors, prices, and welfare. We also study the interplay of exogenous historical amenities, tourism, and residents welfare in a system of two cities. When residents are immobile, they are unambiguously better off when they live in a city with richer historical amenities, and thus more tourists, than the other city. When residents are mobile and their welfare is equalized between cities, the strength of consumption amenities becomes crucial to determine whether they are better off living in an urban system where cities are heterogeneous or similar in terms of historical amenities.
R32|Growth and the geography of knowledge|We analyse how spatial disparities in innovation activities, coupled with migration costs, affect economic geography, growth and regional inequality. We provide conditions for existence and uniqueness of a spatial equilibrium, and for the endogenous emergence of industry clusters. Spatial variations in knowledge spillovers lead to spatial concentration of more innovative firms. Migration costs, however, limit the concentration of economic activities in the most productive region. Narrowing the gap in knowledge spillovers across regions raises growth, and reduces regional inequality by making firms more sensitive to wage differentials. The associated change in the spatial concentration of industries has positive welfare effects.
R32|Learning to import from your peers|We use firm-level data from Hungary to estimate knowledge spillovers in importing through fine spatial and managerial networks. By identifying from variation in peers' import experience across source countries, by comparing the spillover from neighboring buildings with a cross-street placebo, and by exploiting plausibly exogenous firm moves, we obtain credible estimates and establish three results. (1) There are significant knowledge spillovers in both spatial and managerial networks. Having a peer which has imported from a particular country more than doubles the probability of starting to import from that country, but the effect quickly decays with distance. (2) Spillovers are heterogeneous: they are stronger when firms or peers are larger or more productive, and exhibit complementarities in firm and peer productivity. (3) The model-implied social multiplier is highly skewed, implying that targeting an import-encouragement policy to firms with many and productive neighbors can make it 26% more effective. These results highlight the benefit of firm clusters in facilitating the diffusion of business practices.
R32|Location choices of Swedish independent schools – How does allowing for private provision affect the geography of the education market?|This paper studies the location decisions of Swedish start-up independent schools. It makes use of the great expansion of independent schools following a reform implemented in 1992 to test what local market characteristics are correlated with independent school entry. The results suggest that independent schools are more likely to choose locations with a higher share of students with high-educated parents; a higher student population density; and a lower share of students with Swedish-born parents. There is also some evidence that independent schools are less likely to locate in municipalities with a left-wing political majority. These results are robust to various alternative and flexible definitions of local school markets, which were employed in order to alleviate the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem. For some of the included variables, the definition of the local market however had a large impact on the results, suggesting that the issue of how to define regions in spatial analyses can be important.
R32|Location Choices of Swedish Independent Schools: How Does Allowing for Private Provision Affect the Geography of the Education Market?|This paper studies the location decisions of Swedish start-up independent schools. It makes use of the great expansion of independent schools following a reform implemented in 1992 to test what local market characteristics are correlated with independent school entry. The results suggest that independent schools are more likely to choose locations with a higher share of students with high-educated parents; a higher student population density; and a lower share of students with Swedish-born parents. There is also some evidence that independent schools are less likely to locate in municipalities with a left-wing political majority. These results are robust to various alternative and flexible definitions of local school markets, which were employed in order to alleviate the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem. For some of the included variables, the definition of the local market however had a large impact on the results, suggesting that the issue of how to define regions in spatial analyses can be important.
R32|Location choices of Swedish independent schools – How does allowing for private provision affect the geography of the education market?|This paper studies the location decisions of Swedish start-up independent schools. It makes use of the great expansion of independent schools following a reform implemented in 1992 to test what local market characteristics are correlated with independent school entry. The results suggest that independent schools are more likely to choose locations with a higher share of students with high-educated parents; a higher student population density; and a lower share of students with Swedish-born parents. There is also some evidence that independent schools are less likely to locate in municipalities with a left-wing political majority. These results are robust to various alternative and flexible definitions of local school markets, which were employed in order to alleviate the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem. For some of the included variables, the definition of the local market however had a large impact on the results, suggesting that the issue of how to define regions in spatial analyses can be important.
R32|A residential land price index for Luxembourg: Dealing with the spatial dimension|Urban development projects have many effects on society, such as improving mobility, health, education, and sustainability. For policy-relevant measures, it is important that policymakers are able to foresee how quality improvements influence the price of land. Therefore, our objective is to collect a set of variables able to account for the effects of a multitude of land quality improvements. In addition, surrounding plots and the natural and built environment might also influence urban land prices. However, most house price and land price indices do not control for any potentially related spatial effects. The urban land price index detailed here is based on land transaction prices for Luxembourg between 2010 and 2014 recorded in notarial deeds and cadastral data, together with geo-spatial characteristics. The proposed index includes many aspects in an initial hedonic model specification, the index also operates on a spatial model.
R32|Spatial Persistence of Agglomeration in Software Publishing|We estimate the effects of industrial localization on the spatial persistence of employment in the software industry, using micro-data from Texas for the 2000-2006 period. Locations with an initial concentration of software employment retain an excess number of employees, beyond that expected from job turnover and job persistence at the establishment level. This is not driven by differential establishment growth or survival, but it is due to (a) the retention by establishments in a location of jobs lost by other establishments in that location, and (b) the propensity of software establishments to enter in locations with prior software establishment presence. These findings are more consistent with labor channel effects than with human capital spillovers.
R32|Toxic Emissions and Executive Migration|We study the impact of toxic emissions on the migration of corporate executives. We link data on the opening of industrial plants emitting toxic air pollutants with information on the career paths of executives at all S&P 1500 firms over the 1996-2014 period. We find that (1) the opening of toxic emitting plants increases the rate at which executives leave geographically close firms and move to firms in less polluted areas, (2) stock returns fall when these “treated” executives announce their departures, and (3) the replacement executives have less experience than the departing executives.
R32|Growth and the Geography of Knowledge|We analyse how spatial disparities in innovation activities, coupled with migration costs, affect economic geography, growth and regional inequality. We provide conditions for existence and uniqueness of a spatial equilibrium, and for the endogenous emergence of industry clusters. Spatial variations in knowledge spillovers lead to spatial concentration of more innovative firms. Migration costs, however, limit the concentration of economic activities in the most productive region. Narrowing the gap in knowledge spillovers across regions raises growth, and reduces regional inequality by making firms more sensitive to wage differentials. The associated change in the spatial concentration of industries has positive welfare effects.
R32|The cost of floods in developing countries’ megacities: A hedonic price analysis of the Jakarta housing market, Indonesia|Although many megacities in developing countries experience floods that affect a large number of people, relatively few empirical studies have evaluated the costs involved. This paper estimates such costs by conducting a hedonic price analysis of the impacts of floods on the housing market in Jakarta. A robust regression technique on a simple linear transformation model, and a maximum likelihood estimation technique on the spatial lag version of the simple linear transformation model are utilized to estimate the correlation between the level of the 2007 floods and monthly housing rental prices in Jakarta, Indonesia. This paper concludes that in developing countries’ megacities the total cost of floods is not as considerable as the total estimated cost of making the city of Jakarta floodfree
R32|Endogenous Firm Location with a Decreasing Density of Consumers|This note will use the Hotelling?s line model with a non-uniform distribution of consumers. Instead, a linear, decreasing density is employed to represent a decreasing population density as distance from a metropolitan area is increased along some transportation artery. Entry is sequential, and the number of firms is assumed endogenous after an initial firm is located, making the entrants consider the possibility of later firms. Entrants into this market have neither maximum nor minimum differentiation. Earlier entrants generally locate closer to the population center with the possible exception of the equilibrium location closest to the densest point on the line. The differentiation increases as the firms are farther from the population center.
R32|Spatial distribution of the international food prices: unexpected randomness and heterogeneity|"Global food prices are typically analysed in a times series framework to assess the causes of volatility and to highlight spikes, that are interpreted as a signal of food crises. We address the spatial dimension of the issue at hand by focusing on the spatial food price dispersion, at the country-scale, in the international food trade network (IFTN) for ten relevant commodities. We base our study on bilateral trade by focusing on both the ""internal"" variance, which indicates that an exporter sets di erent prices to different importers for the same commodity, and the ""external"" variance, that is a measure of market price competitiveness. We nd that spatial price dispersion is remarkable and persistent over time and that there exists a strict correlation between price spikes (in level) and peaks in spatial price variability. This entails that during price crises the market is more fragmented and a higher spatial price dispersion is found. Moreover, we implement a randomness test on the country-scale price distributions to test whether they can be replicated through a random process of extraction. It results that the actual distribution of prices of several commodities is well described by a random distribution. It follows that the process of data aggregation is not neutral because, in several cases, the information at the micro-level scale (firms' decision) is lost at the macro-scale due to the complexity of the international food trade network (IFTN). We suggest some possible economic explanations of this occurrence and we discuss the main methodological consequences."
R32|The exact solution of spatial logit response games|This paper proposes a logit response game with a spatial social structure and solves it exactly. We derive closed-form solutions for the strategy choice probabilities, the spatial correlation function of strategies of distant players, and the expected utility. We study how the probability of adopting a cooperative strategy in a prisoner’s dilemma game and the probability of adopting Pareto efficient strategies in a cooperation game are affected by changes in the parameter that expresses payoff-responsiveness.
R32|Occupant Well-Being and House Values|"A difficulty in identifying the contribution of structure and neighborhood attributes to the market value of residential property is the lack of data on subjective characteristics of the neighborhood (friendliness of neighbors, proximity to friends and acquaintances) or difficult-to-observe subjective attributes of the structure itself (such as ""curb appeal"" or the presence of unpleasant odors). Concern may also arise from the understanding that the observed market price of most residential property is the result of a process of bargaining. A buyer who is optimistic by nature may assume that the quality of the neighborhood will be wonderful, or that the unusual odor will eventually go away, and therefore be willing to bid a higher price for the structure than a prospective buyer who is more nervous about all the ways that a house purchase can generate disappointment. Estimates of the value of structure or neighborhood attributes may tell us as much about the emotional affect of the buyer as they do about the actual costs or benefits of the attributes (or of cleaning or mitigating them). These observations suggest that incorporating data on the levels of subjective well being (SWB) and emotional affect of the buyers might be usefully applied to improve hedonic analysis of housing markets. The goal of this paper is to undertake such analysis and to explore the potential for improved analysis of the value of residential property. We make use of unique data collected as part of a multi-year analysis of health outcomes, matched with data on market transactions of residential property in three provinces of the Netherlands. We employ the spatial model developed by Kelejian and Prucha (2010) which allows us to incorporate a spatial error specification, as well explicitly control for possible endogeneity between the measure of SWB and the transaction price. By examining aggregate measures of SWB at different spatial scales, we obtain insights into whether these measurements are capturing subjective characteristics of the community, the neighborhood or the structure and the buyer who negotiateover the eventual price."
R32|Location in a disk city with consumer concentration around the center|The paper studies a two-stage location-price duopoly game in a disk city with consumer concentration around the city center. When consumers are uniformly distributed over the plane, unconstrained firms locate outside of the city. Consumer concentration, however, induces firms to locate nearer to each other and, when the degree of concentration is sufficiently high, inside of the city. Prices and firm profits decrease in the degree of consumer concentration. We explicitly solve the model for classes of cone-shaped, dome-shaped, and bell-shaped consumer densities. In all cases we identify a loss of welfare due to the strategic effect which causes the firms' spatial differentiation being too large.
R32|Interest rates and house prices in the United States and around the world|This paper estimates the response of house prices to changes in short- and long-term interest rates in 47 advanced and emerging market economies. We use data that statistical authorities selected as their best house price series, covering almost half a century of quarterly observations for the United States and over 1,000 annual observations for the rest of the sample. We find a surprisingly important role for short-term interest rates as a driver of house prices, especially outside the United States. Our interpretation is that this reflects the importance of the bank lending channel of monetary policy in house price fluctuations, especially in countries where securitisation of home mortgages is less prevalent. In addition, we document substantial inertia in house prices and find that changes in interest rates and other determinants affect house prices gradually rather than on impact. This suggests that modest cuts in policy rates are not likely to rapidly fuel house price increases. Finally, we find that US interest rates seem to affect house prices outside the United States.
R32|Local Economic Consequences of Investment in Children: Capitalization of Child Care Services|Recent analyses of intergenerational mobility show that investments in children pay big dividends. The priority of resources in early childhood also affects the working of the local economy. Geographic variation in child care services motivates location of families and thereby influences housing markets. In this paper we analyze this local dimension of universal child care during a period of national reform to raise and equalize the child care coverage across Norway. We apply a rich dataset of housing transactions and characteristics for six years (2001-2006) and combine them with local government level data about quantity and quality of child care and various community controls. Given a reform driving the expansion of child care coverage with central government financing, we investigate the relationship between child care and housing prices using a variety of panel models. The robustness of the results are studied under the stronger assumption that only changes in coverage were mandated. The results show that housing prices respond to child care and are consistent with the recent literature on capitalization of schooling. In the first difference model, 10% increase in child care coverage, about one standard deviation, raises house prices by 3%. We conclude that child care reform initiates adjustments at housing markets and confirms the role of geographic sorting as part of local fiscal allocations.
R32|Heterogeneity in house price dynamics|To what extent do house price dynamics differ across market segments? And what determines this heterogeneity? We address these questions by analysing a data set of individual houses and mortgages, based on a survey of about 2,000 Dutch households over the period 2003-2011. We estimate a dynamic panel data model of house price dynamics by means of the Arellano-Bond estimator. Three main empirical results emerge. First, we generally find that house price dynamics imply a convergence towards their long-run equilibrium value, as indicated by a negative serial correlation coefficient and a positive estimated mean reversion coefficient. Second, there is evidence that the housing market in the Netherlands is inefficient. Third, there is important heterogeneity across different market segments. We document that the speed of convergence of house price dynamics and the efficiency of housing markets depends on the geographical location and degree of urbanization, the type and year of construction of a house, the type of mortgage financing and households' sentiment about the medium-term outlook for income.
R32|Experimental study on R32 leakage and diffusion characteristic of wall-mounted air conditioners under different operating conditions|With good thermal performance and environmental characteristics, R32 is an alternative refrigerant of R22, but its application is limited by its flammability. In view of indoor security, this paper analyzed the leakage and diffusion of R32 of wall-mounted air conditioners under different operating conditions. The impact of air supply velocities and the leakage hole positions on the concentration distribution was also analyzed when the refrigerant leaks from the indoor unit while the air conditioner is operating. The results show that the leakage rate of R32 decreases with air conditioner operation time. The leakage process of refrigerant under the operating conditions can be classified into a fast leak stage and a slow leak stage. When the refrigerant leaks from the inlet pipe of the evaporator, the leakage rate is higher than that from the outlet pipe of the evaporator. This paper also analyzed the impact of air supply velocities on the concentration distribution and obtained the concentration distribution under different operating conditions. The concentration distribution was compared when the R32 leaks from different positions. Then, the indoor security was evaluated when R32 leaks from an operating air conditioner. And the results suggest that the combustible zone only appears near the leakage hole and the duration of the combustible zone is very short. We can infer that the fire risk of R32 as the alternative refrigerant of an air conditioner is very low under the general operation conditions.
R32|Productivity differences and inter-state migration in the U.S.: A multilateral gravity approach|In this paper, we study the quantitative role of productivity differences in explaining migration in presence of multiple destination choices. We construct a dynamic general equilibrium model with multi-region, multi-sector set-up where labor is a mobile input, which adjusts to regional and sectoral productivity shocks, resulting in migration across regions. The proposed model generates a migration network where the flow of migrants between any two regions follows a gravity equation. We calibrate the model to the U.S. data and we find that variation in industrial and regional total factor productivity shocks explains about 63% of the interstate migration in the U.S. Finally, we perform comparative statics to estimate the effects of long-run structural changes on migration. We find that capital intensity of the production process and the demand for services over manufactured goods negatively impact aggregate level of migration whereas asymmetries in trade patterns do not appear to have substantial effects.
R32|Uncertainty avoiding behavior and cross-border acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region|This research explores the impact of national culture on cross-border acquisitions. National culture can influence the ways managers cope with uncertainty, and their subsequent business decisions, as was described in seminal research by Hofstede (1991). By their very nature, cross-border acquisitions require that managers deal with different cultures and higher levels of uncertainty. We seek to understand how national culture affects value in cross-border acquisitions using data from the Asia-Pacific Rim region over the period between 2000 and 2009. The countries of this region have large cultural differences and the potential gains from acquisitions are very substantial, so these data are an excellent population for analysis. Our results show that different national cultures have an important influence on financial decisions by firms in ways consistent with classic research by Knight (2006), and also that different national cultures cope with uncertainty in different ways. We find that acquirers from countries with a high aversion to uncertainty conduct fewer cross-border acquisitions. Further, these high uncertainty aversion firms pay a higher price for control in cross-border deals.
R32|Comparing Federal Reserve, Blue Chip, and time series forecasts of US output growth|We evaluate the predictive content of Federal Reserve and Blue Chip forecasts of output growth by utilizing two comparable forecasts as benchmarks: a univariate autoregressive (AR) model, and a vector autoregressive (VAR) model which includes output growth, growth in residential investment, and consumers’ assessments of business conditions. We first show the forecasts are all directionally accurate, free of systematic bias, and efficient. Second, the asymmetric information hypothesis cannot be supported. Third, the Federal Reserve and private forecasts are generally less informative than the VAR forecasts and thus lack past information on residential investment growth and consumers’ assessments of business conditions.
R32|How Centralized is U.S. Metropolitan Employment?|"Centralized employment remains a benchmark stylization of metropolitan land use.To address its empirical relevance, we delineate ""central employment zones"" (CEZs)- central business districts together with nearby concentrated employment|for 183 metropolitan areas in 2000. To do so, we first subjectively classify which census tracts in a training sample of metros belong to their metro's CEZ and then use a learning algorithm to construct a function that predicts our judgment. {{p}} Applying this prediction function to the full cross section of metros estimates the probability we would judge each census tract as belonging to its metro's CEZ. Using a high probability threshold for tract inclusion conservatively delineates a predicted CEZ for each metro. On average, the conservatively predicted CEZs account for only 12 percent of metropolitan employment in 2000. But the distribution of shares is positively skewed, with the conservatively predicted CEZs accounting for at least 20 percent of employment in 29 metros. Employment centralization is considerably higher for agglomerative occupations|those that arguably bene t most from face-to-face contact. The conservatively predicted CEZs account for at least 33 percent of agglomerative employment in 24 metros and at least 50 percent of legal employment in 79 metros."
R32|The Production Function for Housing: Evidence from France|We propose a new nonparametric approach to estimate the production function for housing. Our estimation treats output as a latent variable and relies on the firstorder condition for profit maximisation with respect to nonland inputs by competitive house builders. For parcels of a given size, we compute housing by summing across the marginal products of nonland inputs. Differences in nonland inputs are caused by differences in land prices that reflect differences in the demand for housing across locations. We implement our methodology on newlybuilt singlefamily homes in France. We find that the production function for housing is reasonably well, though not perfectly, approximated by a CobbDouglas function and close to constant returns. After correcting for differences in user costs between land and nonland inputs and taking care of some estimation concerns, we estimate an elasticity of housing production with respect to nonland inputs of about 0.80.
R32|The Production Function for Housing: Evidence from France|We propose a new nonparametric approach to estimate the production function for housing. Our estimation treats output as a latent variable and relies on the firstorder condition for profit maximisation with respect to nonland inputs by competitive house builders. For parcels of a given size, we compute housing by summing across the marginal products of nonland inputs. Differences in nonland inputs are caused by differences in land prices that reflect differences in the demand for housing across locations. We implement our methodology on newlybuilt singlefamily homes in France. We find that the production function for housing is reasonably well, though not perfectly, approximated by a CobbDouglas function and close to constant returns. After correcting for differences in user costs between land and nonland inputs and taking care of some estimation concerns, we estimate an elasticity of housing production with respect to nonland inputs of about 0.80.
R32|Incorporating spatial price adjustments in U.S. public policy analysis|The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis has recently released regional price parities (RPPs) for the 325 Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas and the 50 state nonmetropolitan areas. We consider the effects of RPP adjustments on four public policy issues: poverty rates, family income inequality, tax progressivity, and metropolitan-size premiums. We demonstrate that RPP adjustments strongly affect the spatial distribution of U.S. poverty, have an equalizing effect on income inequality (equivalent to a $1,500 cash transfer to each U.S. family), and also increase effective federal tax progressivity by more than 25 percent. Income premiums for the major metropolitan areas largely disappear after adjusting for spatial prices and controlling for the characteristics of family heads. Metro-size premiums also depend on whether we adjust incomes by the overall RPPs or a narrower housing-price index (as in earlier research). We conjecture that other public policy findings are sensitive to adjustments for spatial price differences.
R32|Consumer flexibility, data quality and location choice|Abstract We analyze firms’ location choices in a Hotelling model with two-dimensional consumer heterogeneity, along addresses and transport cost parameters (flexibility). Firms can price discriminate based on perfect data on consumer addresses and (possibly) imperfect data on consumer flexibility. We show that firms’ location choices depend on how strongly consumers differ in flexibility. Precisely, when consumers are relatively homogeneous, equilibrium locations are socially optimal regardless of the quality of customer flexibility data. However, when consumers are relatively differentiated, firms make socially optimal location choices only when customer flexibility data becomes perfect. These results are driven by the optimal strategy of a firm on its turf, monopolization or market-sharing, which in turn depends on consumer heterogeneity in flexibility. Our analysis is motivated by the availability of customer data, which allows firms to practice third-degree price discrimination based on both consumer characteristics relevant in spatial competition, addresses and transport cost parameters.
R32|The impact of road infrastructure investment on incumbent firms in Korea|This paper develops an indicator that combines the area that residents can reach within a certain time of travel with population density to create a proxy for “accessibility”, i.e. access to employment and consumption opportunities. Using a large scale firm level dataset, with nearly one million firm year observations over 14 years, the paper quantifies the link between firm-level outcomes and the change in accessibility in Korea due to the expansion of the network of major roads. The results suggest that the most productive firms benefited in terms of employment, output, and productivity, as accessibility improved. For the majority of incumbent firms, improved accessibility leaves most balance sheet variables broadly unaffected, but is associated with a decrease in fixed assets. The estimates also suggest that there was little job displacement, with the exception of service sectors where employment increased in response to improved local accessibility and declined for long distance accessibility.
R32|Spatial Price Discrimination and Privatization on Vertically Related Markets|We consider a vertically structured market with two retail firms of mixed ownership competing against each other exercising spatial price discrimination. We examine the strategic behavior of downstream rivals as well as the effect of privatization on the intensity of competition and welfare in two cases; when location decisions are taken sequentially and when location decisions are taken simultaneously. We show that production cost differentials are crucial in determining the Nash equilibrium locations (hence market shares) and the impact of the degree of privatization on the level of downstream competition. Privatization leads to stiffer competition when the mixed ownership firm has the cost advantage. However, it can be welfare enhancing only when decisions are taken sequentially with the follower being the semi-public firm having a moderate production cost advantage over the market leader. The results of our model generalize to capture the case of vertical mergers.
R32|When Regional Policies Fail An Evaluation of Indonesia's Integrated Economic Development Zones|"Throughout the developing world, many countries have created special economic zones to attract investment and spur industrial growth. In some cases, these zones are designed to promote development in poorer regions with limited market access and lower quality infrastructure, an example of a ""big push"" development strategy. In this paper, we study the effects of Indonesia's Integrated Economic Development Zone (KAPET) program. This program provided substantial tax-breaks for firms that locate in certain districts in the Outer Islands of Indonesia, a country with large regional differences in per-capita income and a history of policies to promote inclusive growth. We find that along many dimensions, KAPET districts experienced no better development outcomes, and in some cases fared even worse, than their non-treated counterparts. If anything, the strongest finding is that firms in KAPET districts paid lower taxes, but these tax reductions neither encouraged greater firm entry, increased migration, nor raised local measures of output or welfare. Overall, the KAPET program does not appear to have achieved the intended outcome of promoting growth in lagging regions. While there are many possible reasons that the KAPET program failed, our findings suggest caution in spending scarce resources to subsidize development in lagging regions."
R32|Does Proximity to Foreign Invested Firms Stimulate Productivity Growth of Domestic Firms? Firmlevel Evidence from Vietnam|Inward foreign direct investment (FDI) is regarded as a key engine of industrial growth and technological progress, especially in emerging markets. Regarding the relevance of geographic proximity between foreign and domestic firms for FDI spillover effects, there is yet little clear evidence, owing to a lack of precise location specific firm-level data. This paper presents the so far spatially most detailed analysis of FDI spillover effects by geo-referencing the census of Vietnamese enterprises for the period 2005 to 2010, allowing us to measure the changing presence of foreign invested firms around each domestic firm. We apply a first-differenced two-stageleast- squares estimator to identify spillover effects from proximate FDI exposure on TFP growth of domestic manufacturing firms. We find positive and significant within-industry (horizontal) spillover effects within radii of 2 to 10 km, that decay beyond. Importantly, in particular small and medium enterprises (SMEs) gain from foreign firms in their vicinity. Furthermore, vertical spillovers through forward and backward linkages to other manufacturing firms are localized, while vertical spillovers from foreign firms in the service sector are less geographically restricted.
R32|Identification and Characterization of Subcentralities in the Municipality of SÃ£o Paulo|The monocentric city models have received much criticism as to how representative the pattern is with respect to big cities, as is the case with the Municipality of SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil (the fifth largest city in the world). Theoretical models concerned with multiple centers was brought to the debate on sprawling urban employment. However, empirical methods that identify central places are not a specific aspect in the specialized literature. The purpose of this paper is to identify and characterize the urban employment subcenters (Small Business Districts, SBD) in the Municipality of SÃ£o Paulo. To this end, we propose a two-step methodology: 1) Exploratory Spatial Data Analysis and 2) Spatial Hedonic Prices Model. As a result, we found seven regions that can be considered SBD. These regions are able to impact housing prices as predicted by polycentric theoretical models that are localized in the main nodes of transportation.
R32|Evaluation der Mietpreisbremse|Getrieben durch den starken Zuzug aus dem In- und Ausland erleben die Wohnungsmärkte der deutschen Metropolregionen in den letzten Jahren einen deutlichen Nachfrageschub. Durch die gleichzeitig nur moderat ausgeweitete Bautätigkeit fällt es Mietern zunehmend schwerer bezahlbaren Wohnraum zu finden. Im Nachgang der Bundestagswahl 2013 ist das Problem der sich verschärfenden Wohnungs-knappheit auf der politischen Agenda der deutschen Bundesregierung gelandet, mit dem Ziel, Wohnraum auch zukünftig für die breite Bevölkerung bezahlbar zu halten. Mit dem 1. Juni 2015 wurde dann das Wohnungsmarktinstrument der Mietpreisbremse - zunächst in Berlin - eingeführt, um überdurchschnittlichen Mietpreiserhöhungen entgegenzuwirken. Mit einigen Ausnahmen für neu errichtete und umfassend modernisierte Wohnungen darf seitdem die geforderte Neuvertragsmiete die jeweilige orts-übliche Vergleichsmiete um maximal zehn Prozent überschreiten. Jedoch scheint der Anstieg der Mieten trotz der Einführung der Wohnungsmarktregulierung ungebrochen, sodass in Öffentlichkeit und Medien zunehmend Zweifel an der Wirksamkeit der Mietpreisbremse aufgekommen sind. [...]
R32|Agglomeration of Invention in the Bay Area: Not Just ICT|We document that the Bay Area rose from 4% of all successful US patent applications in 1976 to 16% in 2008. This is partly driven by the increase in the prevalence of information and communication technology; however, even for patents unrelated to information and communication technology, we see a disproportionate increase in the share of US patents from the Bay Area. We interpret this growth as a trend to coagglomeration in invention across technologies, and explore different dimensions of this trend.
R32|Internal Geography, International Trade, and Regional Specialization|We introduce an internal geography to the canonical model of international trade driven by comparative advantages to study the regional effects of external economic integration. The model features a dual-economy structure, in which locations near international gates specialize in export-oriented sectors while more distant locations do not trade with the rest of the world. The theory rationalizes patterns of specialization, employment, and relative incomes observed in developing countries that opened up to trade. We find regional specialization patterns consistent with the model in industry-level data from Chinese prefectures. (JEL F11, O18, P23, P25, P33, R12, R32)
R32|Product differentiation and cost pass-through| Many food products show a high level of vertical and horizontal product differentiation. Manufacturers may instrument product differentiation to limit competition and to increase price dispersion. In this paper, we estimate a panel error correction cost pass-through model for the German yoghurt market over a six year period (t = 312) to determine the impact of product differentiation on price competition between individual brands and varieties of yoghurt. We find that more differentiated products show higher markups, reduced equilibrium cost pass-through and lower speed of cost-price adjustments. The results indicate that manufacturers (and/or retailers) use product differentiation to limit price competition.
R32|Agricultural Water Productivity under Spatial Adjustments| With the demand for agricultural water expecting to be increased because of the expanding population growth and with water use efficiency in agricultural sector tending to be low, policy recommendations are needed to encourage farmers to increase agricultural water productivity. The main objective of this paper is to develop a spatial model that determines optimal water allocation and to generate measures of agricultural water productivity along a canal, taking into account the head versus tail disparities in water allocation along a canal. The second objective is to analyze agricultural water productivity change into its components, change in variable inputs and change in water usage, and examine the effect of efficient water usage effort on agricultural water productivity.
R32|Does a nutritious diet cost more in food deserts?|Food deserts and their potential effects on diet and nutrition have received much attention from policymakers. While some research has found a correlation between food deserts and consumer outcomes, it is unclear whether food deserts truly affect consumer choices. In this article, we compare food prices in food deserts, defined as low‐income, low‐access census tracts, and nonfood deserts to observe whether and to what extent consumers face higher prices for a complete diet in food deserts. If a nutritionally complete diet costs significantly more in food deserts, resident consumers may be constrained from consuming healthier foods. We use store‐level scanner data from a nationally representative sample and calculate a census‐tract level Exact Price Index (EPI) based on a food basket defined by the Thrifty Food Plan (TFP). The EPI addresses potential biases from both product heterogeneity and variety availability. We find that the overall price impact of living in a food desert is small; low‐access areas have only 3.5% higher EPI than high‐access counterparts. However, consumers who are constrained to shop within their own census tracts face a much higher EPI than high‐access counterparts (9.2%). The higher EPI primarily comes from lower variety availability in food deserts.
R32|Direct-selling farming and urban externalities: What impact on product quality and market size?|In this paper, we study how proximity to cities affects the decisions of farmers to enter the direct-sales market in the presence of spatial heterogeneity in agricultural yields. We develop a theoretical model which takes account of the externality of urban pollution and market access costs on direct-selling profits. We find that regions hosting an intermediate-size city are more likely to supply a wider range of direct-selling varieties. Additionally, we highlight that spatial heterogeneity in productivity creates distortions in the competition among farmers, and can have concomitant undesired effects on both the quality and range of available varieties.
R32|Residential Location Impacts of Environmental Disamenity: The Case of Gravel Pit Operation and Landfills| In this paper, we analyze how environmental disamenity affects residential location choices using a horizontal sorting model. The environmental disamenity is measured by the distances between houses and the nearest landfill and gravel pit. The study area in this paper is the Franklin County of Ohio State and each of the housing units chosen by the households in the sample represents a housing type. The first stage estimation results show that rich white householder are more likely to select houses with longer distance from the gravel pits and landfills than rich black householder. After controlling for the price endogeneity, the second stage estimation supports the hypothesis that longer distance to the landfill increases the fixed utility of the house. Also, the direction for the effect of distance to the nearest gravel pit is as expected, which indicates that households prefer to select houses with longer distance to the gravel pit operation.
R32|Pricing behaviour of cooperatives and investor-owned dairies under spatial competition| This paper analyses differences in the pricing behaviour between cooperatives and investor-owned dairies for raw milk in a spatial market setting. We systemize the theoretical literature concerning the relations between price and space in oligopsonistic markets. This provides the foundation for empirically analysing the price-space relationship in the German raw milk market. Space represents the distance to competing dairies and transportation cost. We differentiate between cooperatives and investor-owned dairies in North and South Germany. Specifically, the impact of a dairy’s own legal form and that of neighbouring competitors on the pricing behaviour is assessed. For the South of Germany, a negative relationship between space and raw milk price is found while for the North the relationship is positive. In both North and South the effect is stronger for cooperatives compared to investor-owned firms. Overall, our findings do not necessarily suggest an increase in market power and a decrease in raw milk prices when the concentration process of the dairy sector is progressing. Further, this paper provides the first spatial analysis of the competitive yardstick effect, for which we find weak evidence in the South. For the north, the theory of the competitive yardstick effect cannot be supported empirically. The estimation is based on a panel-data set covering all German dairies from 2001 to 2012 providing information on raw milk prices, processing quantities, legal and production form.
R32|A Consumer and Investment Model of Housing Demand of Iran: Estimation and Policy Implications|This paper presents a study of the housing demand in Iran according to the consumer and investment approach during the period of 1995-2011. The first approach is based on a statistical evaluation of the consumer function, based on system equations, which describes the consumer housing demand as five groups of consumer goods and services. The second approach evaluates the consumer housing demand as a separate investment good, which depends on several factors. Based on the achieved results, the paper makes an analysis of the influence of the different factors on the consumer housing demand.In consumer approach behavior of the consumers of deciles urban households in all over the country has been assessed, through the panel data by using the Linear Expenditure System (LES) with using Seemingly Unrelated Regression Estimation (SURE) housing consumption demand of households are estimated. Result shows that housing market has been support law of demand with negative income elasticity of 0.81. Also the cross-elasticity of all groups are negative which is indicating that these commodities are supplement for the housing good in the consumption household budget. The second approach, capital characteristic of the commodity, investigates the impact of price house, and household income, local gold price, consumer goods price index and housing credits on effective housing demand of Iran in same period. The main result of this approach is that price elasticity of housing is positive.
R32|It is Mainly About Where You Work!: Labor Demand in the Colombian Manufacturing Sector|Using the Colombian Annual Manufacturing Survey (EAM) between 2000 and 2013, this paper investigates the existence of heterogeneity in the labor demand within the industrial sector. Long run own-price, output and TFP elasticities vary across a variety of dimensions such as regions, sectors and plant sizes depending on workers' skills and contract modalities (open-ended or temporary). Hence, it matters where one works. Such disparities should be taken into account in the design of policies that promote labor market performance, as outcomes, beyond intentions, are unlikely to be homogenous.
R32|Dynamic and Static Asking Prices in the Sydney Housing Market|This paper investigates the impact of two commonly used asking price strategies on house sales prices. In particular, we compare a dynamic asking price, where the seller adjusts her asking price over time as she fails to sell her property, with a static asking price, where the seller sets an asking price and sticks to it until the property is sold. While this comparison is ambiguous from a theoretical perspective, our empirical study using a comprehensive data set on the properties sold in the greater Sydney region indicates that properties with a dynamic asking price sold, on average, for $25,400 less than properties with a static asking price, which is approximately four percent of the mean property price in our sample. In addition, we also show that, controlling for the asking price strategy, the duration of sale has a significant impact on sales prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R32|Multilevel Transmission of Cultural Attitudes and Entrepreneurial Intention: Evidence from High-School Students|Intention toward any occupational choice can be widely categorized as a rational choice process combined with a subjective attitude function. There is extensive literature dealing with the formation of intention toward entrepreneurship in adolescents, in particular as a result of either parental (vertical) transmission of social capital or network effects from peers or neighbours (the latter two being two different levels of horizontal transmission varying in proximity in terms of bonding and bridging). We contribute to this literature by considering the joint effect of all these three levels simultaneously, in order to avoid an underspecification of the model due to omission of important cultural factors. We hypothesize that such three levels identify a mechanism where the individual perception of their importance interacts with their objective characteristics. With data for second-year high-school students, and employing empirical triangulation through Logit and 3SLS methods, we find evidence for a strong parental effect and of secondary peer effects on student intention. We also detect clear endogenous effects from the neighbourhood and the overall cultural context. Moreover, entrepreneurship is confirmed to be perceived, even by students, as a buffer for unemployment and social mobility.
R32|Approaches to the Identification of the Boundaries of Spatial Networks as Multidimensional Territorial Socio-economic Systems|Contemporary socio-economic space is based on spatial networking of a wide range of actors involved in the process of co-creation of value. These interactions expressed in entrepreneurial “co-opetition,” interpersonal relations, territorial embeddedness, reflect a certain degree of proximity among its members. Different configurations of participants and their networking generate a variety of forms being conceptualized, such as the industrial district, technopolis, cluster, etc. Objective desire of the state authorities and other stakeholders to reproduce the best practice imprinted in these concepts triggers the development of respective state support programs, focused on the development of existing nodes. In this context it is especially important to develop a mechanism of identifying the attributes and the territorial boundaries of whatever type of spatial networking implied. The article clarifies the concept of the boundaries of spatial networking based on an interdisciplinary approach, involving consideration of a number of factors (spatial, temporal, institutional, social, cognitive, etc.). The types of boundaries of the spatial networking and a description of their basic properties are identified.
R32|A comment on ‘Vertical mergers and downstream spatial competition with different product varieties’|The aim of this paper is to revise and correct the results obtained in Beladi et al. (2008). Specifically, we prove that in the pre-merger case, Nash equilibrium locations are socially optimal, whereas a vertical merger will relocate downstream firms by making them move to the right of their old socially optimal positions while keeping their in-between distance intact.
R32|Addendum to Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016)|Following the publication of Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016a), it was brought to our attention that the problem identified and corrected in Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016a) affects more papers than just the Beladi et al. (2008). Two such instances of published papers that we know of are the Beladi et al. (2010a) and Beladi et al. (2010b). The aim of this short addendum is to warn the reader against the validity of the results in these two papers and perhaps others using the same basic duopoly model as in Beladi et al. (2008). We look into the origins of the fallacy and make an announcement of corrected versions of some of the affected conclusions referring elsewhere for precise details.
R32|Performance comparison between R410A and R32 multi-heat pumps with a sub-cooler vapor injection in the heating and cooling modes|The cooling and heating performances of R410A and R32 multi-heat pumps with a sub-cooler vapor injection (SCVI) were measured and compared with variations in the outdoor temperature, compressor speed, and injection ratio. Optimum injection ratios were determined to obtain maximum cooling and heating performances at a given operating condition. In the cooling mode with the optimum injection ratios, the R410A and R32 multi-heat pumps with vapor injection showed 2.1%–6.3% higher cooling capacity than those without vapor injection. In the heating mode, the R410A and R32 multi-heat pumps with vapor injection showed 7.5%–13.9% higher heating capacity than those without vapor injection, while showing 2.6%–7.0% and 1.1%–4.7% higher COPs, respectively. In addition, the SCVI cycle was more effective for improving the cooling and heating performances under extremely hot and cold weather conditions, respectively.
R32|Multi-plant operation and headquarters separation: Evidence from Japanese plant-level panel data|This paper shows (i) under what circumstances corporate headquarters (HQs) are separated from production plants and (ii) what type of plants are operated by multi-plant firms. By analyzing Japanese plant-level panel data from manufacturing census, we find that large-sized plants or plants intensively purchasing materials significantly tend to be separated from HQs and become a part of multi-plant operations. This pattern suggests an impact of managerial burden. We confirm the robustness of our main findings by dynamic switching patterns of plant status. Factors of economic geography, such as distance from core, also have noticeable impacts.
R32|Agglomeration within an urban area|This paper utilizes a newly created index for colocalization to estimate the determinants of industrial agglomeration within a single urban area. Our new index directly incorporates the location of individual establishments while controlling for the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem (MAUP) in order to create this measure of spatial similarity between two industries. We estimate that proximity to transportation infrastructure and consumers as well as knowledge spillovers largely explain patterns of agglomeration. We find a smaller role for input–output linkages and consumption externalities for retail and consumer service industries.
R32|Spillovers, absorptive capacity and agglomeration|I study knowledge spillovers in an industry where firms are heterogeneous in their ability to adopt knowledge (absorptive capacity). I set up a model in which firms choose locations anticipating potential gains and losses from other firms’ R&D activity. I apply the model to the US software industry and obtain the following results: the data supports localized knowledge spillovers; firms that have higher absorptive capacity are sorted into more agglomerated counties; ignoring firm heterogeneity leads to biased estimates of gains from spillovers; spillovers play an important role in explaining the geographic distribution of firms, but only within regions with high R&D activity.
R32|Jobless capital? The role of capital subsidies|Using tax abatements, financial incentives, and public investments to attract (or retain) firms is the primary economic development tool for many local governments. Often local job creation policies focus on increasing capital through grants, low-interest financing, and other economic development incentives. Theory predicts that capital subsidies induce firm behaviors that limit their job creation effects. This paper employs the Incentives Environment Index, constructed from state constitutional provisions that limit and structure the ability of state and local governmental entities to aid private enterprises, and county panels to test theoretical predictions on county capital expenditure and input mixes as well as industry establishment shares. The results indicate the act of increasing capital subsidy tools is associated with capital-labor substitution, decreased employment density, and changes in local industry mix. Results are robust to alternative empirical specifications and measures of capital subsidy availability.
R32|Analyzing an elder’s desire for a reverse mortgage using an economic model that considers house bequest motivation, random death time and stochastic house price|In recent decades, the aging of the population and the lengthening of life expectancy have caused seniors to need more retirement income over a longer time period. Because the reverse mortgage (RM) can fulfill this requirement, it has become increasingly popular among elderly homeowners. Based on the assumption that seniors seek maximum utility, this article presents a theoretical economic model that derives a decision rule for participating in the RM program. The model takes account of the influences of bequest motivation, random death times and stochastic house prices. A critical value for the intensity of house bequest motivation is also derived from our formula for the decision rule. We then use this value to show how the elder's desire to participate in the RM program is influenced by three sets of factors: the elder's personal characteristics and circumstances, the content of the RM contract, and the current economic situation. Elders' desire to participate in the RM program is found to be negatively correlated with the fixed cost of applying for an RM, the RM contract rate, and the cash income from the elder's retirement plan; on the contrary, the desire to participate is positively correlated with the RM principle limit factors, the elder's age at the time of joining the RM program, the elder's time preference, the elder's initial cash wealth, the elder's initial house price, the current interest rate, and the volatility of the house return. These analyses should help RM policy executors and providers understand the RM borrower's decision-making process and how the factors mentioned above influence an elder's desire to apply for an RM.
R32|Understanding gasoline price dispersion|Abstract This paper models and estimates the gasoline price dispersion across time and space by using a unique data set at the gas station level within the USA. Nationwide effects (measured by time fixed effects or crude oil prices) explain up to about 51 % of the gasoline price dispersion across stations. Refinery-specific costs, which have been ignored in the literature due to using local data sets within the USA, contribute up to another 33 % to the price dispersion. While state taxes explain about 12 % of the price dispersion, spatial factors such as local agglomeration externalities, land prices, and distribution costs of gasoline explain up to about 4 %. The contribution of brand-specific factors is relatively minor.
R32|The Production Function for Housing: Evidence from France|We propose a new nonparametric approach to estimate the production function for housing. Our estimation treats output as a latent variable and relies on the first-order condition for profit maximisation with respect to non-land inputs by competitive house builders. For parcels of a given size, we compute housing by summing across the marginal products of non-land inputs. Differences in non-land inputs are caused by differences in land prices that reflect differences in the demand for housing across locations. We implement our methodology on newly-built single-family homes in France. We find that the production function for housing is reasonably well, though not perfectly, approximated by a Cobb-Douglas function and close to constant returns. After correcting for differences in user costs between land and non-land inputs and taking care of some estimation concerns, we estimate an elasticity of housing production with respect to non-land inputs of about 0.80.
R32|Structure Depreciation and the Production of Real Estate Services|This study simultaneously analyzes the real estate production function and economic depreciation of structures by using data from Japan and the U.S. The estimated share of structure value is used to infer returns to scale, the land-structure substitution, and the structure depreciation rate. Real estate exhibits approximately constant returns in Japan, but decreasing returns in the U.S. Land and structures are substitutes in both countries. The land value ratio is 10% in Centre County, PA, but 60%-70% in Japan, reflecting the scarcity of land. The property depreciation rate is larger for newer and denser properties located further away from the downtown area in a smaller city. The property depreciation rate is smaller than the structure depreciation rate due to the effect of land and a survivorship bias. The bias-corrected structure depreciation rates significantly vary by property type and country: approximately 7% for residential properties and 10% for commercial properties in Japan in contrast with 1% for residential structures in the U.S. The median life-span of structures is 30-35 years for residential and 20-30 years for commercial properties in Japan.
R32|The Effect of House Price on Stock Market Participation in China: Evidence from the CHFS Micro-Data|This is an empirical study on the effect of house price on stock-market participation and its depths based on unique China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) data in 2011 and 2013 including 36213 sample households. We mainly found that, with an increase of one thousand RMB per square meter in macro house price, the probability to participate in the stock market will increase by 5.4% before controlling for wealth effect and 2.84% afterwards, indicating the existence of wealth effect. The participation depths of the stock-total asset ratio is expected to decrease by 0.23% and absolute stock asset is observed to decrease by 5.8 thousand RMB in response to one thousand RMB increase of per square meter house price. The effect of house price on participation decision is also related to housing area, and the negative effect of house price on stock market participation depths gets more intense with the increase of the stock-total asset ratio.
R32|It is mainly about where you work! Labor demand in the Colombian manufacturing sector|Using the Colombian Annual Manufacturing Survey (EAM) between 2000 and 2013, this paper investigates the existence of heterogeneity in the labor demand within the industrial sector. Long run own-price, output and TFP elasticities vary across a variety of dimensions such as regions, sectors and plant sizes depending on workers’ skills and contract modalities (open-ended or temporary). Hence, it matters where one works. Such disparities should be taken into account in the design of policies that promote labor market performance, as outcomes, beyond intentions, are unlikely to be homogenous.
R32|Determination of the Value of Minimum Sire Accuracy Traits| Using Missouri Show-Me-Select Replacement Heifers Inc. sale data, this article uses hedonic modeling to assess the marginal implicit values of physical and genetic characteristics, expected performance characteristics of calves, and market factors to bred heifer price. In 2008, a higher quality standard, known as Tier II, was created combining minimum expected progeny difference (EPD) accuracies for a heifer’s sire with previous heifer standards. Heifer characteristics and market factors as well as yearling and carcass weight EPDs were found to significantly influence heifer price. Results suggest that Tier II heifers receive a premium compared with traditional Show-Me-Select heifers.
R32|Do Antibiotics Reduce Production Risk for U.S. Pork Producers?| We combine econometric and financial analyses of the NAHMS 2000 Swine Survey data to examine whether evidence exists for reducing risk by using antibiotics for growth promotion (AGP) in the U.S. swine industry. A stochastic dominance analysis of alternative lengths of time (days) of AGP application reveals that AGP used in the range of 65—75 days is preferred by risk-averse producers. Risk is reduced and profits are increased from use of AGP. The combined impacts of increased average daily gain and decreased variability in pig live weight increase producer profits by $2.99 per pig marketed.
R32|Do Antibiotics Reduce Production Risk for U.S. Pork Producers?| Production risk from live weight variation of market pigs has become a more important concern in U.S. swine production. Packers are concerned about the variation in carcass size because of the demand for standardized cuts and the use of automation in the slaughter process. Swine producers care about standardized pigs because of revenue implications and possible links to animal health and productivity. Pig size variation can be due to various condition and inputs including antibiotics. However, discussions on risk reduction from antibiotic use have generally not been considered. Our work extends previous studies by systematically examining the aspects of production risk reduction and highlights the potential results of banning antibiotics from a risk perspective. Using data from National Animal Health Monitoring System 2000 survey data and PigCHAMP, we identify the relationship between antibiotic use and production risk by an econometric model. Applying production costs for feeder to market pigs and a price matrix, the uncertainty in profits is evaluated. The impacts of risk on the decision making of swine producers are examined under the framework of expected utility and stochastic dominance analysis. Our results show that production risk from weight variability of market hogs is important in determining profits and utility under a pricing system. Production risk (i.e. weight gain variability) is related to the use of sub-therapeutic antibiotics. Swine producers could decrease production risk and enhance utility by adjusting antibiotic use. These results offer some support for optimal use of sub-therapeutic antibiotics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R32|Optimal Stocking Density for Dual-Purpose Winter Wheat Production| Dual-purpose winter wheat production is an important economic enterprise in the southern Great Plains of the United States. Because of the complex interactions involved in producing wheat grain and beef gain from a single crop, stocking density is an important decision. The objective of the research is to determine the stocking density that maximizes expected net returns from dual-purpose winter wheat production. Statistical tests rejected a conventional linear-response plateau function in favor of a linear-response stochastic plateau function. The optimal stocking density of 1.48 steers/ha (0.60 steers/acre) is 19% greater with a stochastic than with a nonstochastic plateau.
R32|Optimal Stocking Density for Dual-Purpose Winter Wheat Production| Dual-purpose winter wheat production is an important economic enterprise in the southern Great Plains of the United States. Because of the complex interactions involved in producing wheat grain and beef gain from a single crop, stocking density is an important decision. The objective of the research is to determine the stocking density that maximizes expected net returns from dual-purpose winter wheat production. Statistical tests rejected a conventional linear-response plateau function in favor of a linear-response stochastic plateau function. The optimal stocking density of 1.48 steers/ha (0.60 steers/acre) is 19% greater with a stochastic than with a nonstochastic plateau.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R32|Small Business Start-Ups in the United States: Estimates of the Effects of Characteristics of States|No abstract is available for this item.
