R33|Robust Desmoothed Real Estate Returns|This research starts from the observation that common desmoothing models are likely to generate some extreme returns. Such returns will distort risk measurement and hence can lead to investment decisions that are suboptimal relative to those that would be made if a transaction based index were available. Thus, we propose to improve the desmoothing models by incorporating a robust filter into the procedure. We report that in addition to properly treating for smoothing, the method prevents the occurrence of extreme values. As shown with U.S. data, our method leads to desmoothed series whose characteristics are akin to those of transaction-based indices.
R33|Real Estate Performance, the Macroeconomy and Leverage|Using U.S. data for 1986-2017, the paper focuses on the impacts of macroeconomic risk factors and leverage on the performance of the various types of real estate exposure (direct, non-listed, and listed). The response of core funds to economic risk factors is akin to that of direct investments; however, real estate fund and direct investment performance are less tightly related as more aggressive (i.e., value-added and opportunistic) strategies are envisaged. Only REIT performance is linked to that of the stock market. Leverage matters as it amplifies the responses to the economic factors and hence investment risk.
R33|Hurricanes, Flood Risk and the Economic Adaptation of Businesses|This paper argues that increases in perceived flood risk entail a negative and persistent shock to local economic activity. Our analysis is based on a rich administrative dataset that contains all business establishments in New York City around the time of hurricane Sandy. Our data also identifies exactly which buildings suffered flooding-related damage due to the hurricane. We find evidence of a persistent reduction in the employment and wage income of establishments that suffered damage, along with higher exit rates. The persistence of the effects is consistent with an upward revision of flood-risk beliefs triggered by the hurricane. These findings suggest that businesses are adapting to the higher flood-risk environment by shifting operations toward safer areas. This adjustment process may mitigate the city-wide costs associated to sea-level rise.
R33|What's Wrong with Pittsburgh? Delegated Investors and Liquidity Concentration|What makes an asset institutional-quality? This paper proposes that one reason is the existing concentration of delegated investors in a market through a liquidity channel. Consistent with this intuition, it documents differences in investor composition across US cities and shows that delegated investors concentrate investments in cities with higher turnover. It then calibrates a search model showing how heterogeneity in liquidity preferences makes some markets more liquid even when assets have identical cash flows. The calibration indicates that commercial real estate commands an illiquidity premium of two percentage points annually relative to a perfectly liquid asset with similar credit risk.
R33|Exploring community stakeholders’ perceptions of mass tourism: the case of Bruges|In the last years, there have been protests by residents against tourism in several destinations around the world. Tourists have also increasingly complained about destinations being overcrowded. At the same time, visitors are looking for more authentic experiences. Our research has been conducted in Bruges, one of the major tourist destinations in Belgium to analyse stakeholder’s perceptions of mass tourism and how destinations can ensure a more sustainable development. One of the major findings from this research is the importance of locals’ support to promote a sustainable tourism. Residents and local entrepreneurship could have a more positive attitude towards tourism if the positive impact outweighs the disadvantages of tourism. Practical and managerial implications are suggested.
R33|Revisiting the Anomalous Relationship between Inflation and REIT Returns in Presence of Structural Breaks: Empirical Evidence from the USA and the UK|In this paper we have re-investigated the frequently observed anomalous negative relationship between inflation and REIT returns for two most important economies viz., the USA and the UK by addressing two aspects of misspecification: inappropriate functional form and omission of relevant variable. We have found that the anomalous relationship between REIT and inflation appear to proxy for the significant effect of relative price variability on REIT returns in both the countries. Further, it is evidenced that the effect of relative price variability on real estate investment trust (REIT) returns is not stable over time in case of the USA while in the UK there is no structural change in the relationship.
R33|Smart and Green Buildings Features in the Decision-Making Hierarchy of Office Space Tenants: An Analytic Hierarchy Process Study|In the paper, we investigate the role of smart building or green building innovations on the Polish real estate market using the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method on the group of experts (consultants, managers, brokers) that are active on the office market in Krakow (study area). The findings point towards the highest relevance of the localisation factor, but also at the relatively low importance of the features of a sustainable building: building automation and information technology systems, as well as energy efficiency or certification. The findings suggest that despite the growing interest in sustainability and technological advancement amongst office market participants in Krakow, the relative importance of smart and green building features in their decision-making processes is relatively low. The study has some interesting practical implications. The knowledge regarding the relative importance of decision criteria can be valuable for developers and investors because the anticipation of tenants’ expectations is directly linked with return on investment and innovation premiums.
R33|Price and Volatility Linkages between International REITs and Oil Markets|In this paper, we use a Quantile Structural Vector Autoregressive (QSVAR) model, estimated over the quarterly period of 1975:Q3 to 2017:Q3, to analyze whether the impact of monetary policy shocks on real housing returns in the United States is contingent on the initial state of housing market sentiment. We find that contractionary monetary policy reduces real housing returns more strongly when the market is characterized by optimism rather than pessimism, with this effect being more pronounced under unconventional monetary policy decisions. Further robustness checks confirm our results. Our findings highlight the role in sentiments in driving the policy effectiveness and thus, have important implications for policy decisions.
R33|European office markets, user costs and speculative bubbles|"Over the last years, prices for European office space have reached new peaks. This naturally provokes discussion about a possible overheating in the market. One approach to assess price development of real estate markets is the so-called ""user cost approach"". Typically, this approach is applied to housing markets, but it can also be applied to commercial markets. The model follows the idea of no-arbitrage. If one kind of tenure is economically more attractive than another, households or corporates will shift demand, so that both tenures - buying and renting - should equalise over time. Thus, major differences between buying and renting indicate a possible over- or undervaluation of properties. In this contribution, user costs for offices have been calculated for 18 European capitals. The results indicate that in most European office markets, further price appreciations are likely. In Paris, Helsinki, Prague, Berlin, Stockholm, Amsterdam, Oslo and Luxembourg in particular, huge gaps between prime rents and user costs indicate further price increases, whereas in Madrid, Lisbon, Rome, London and Budapest further price decreases seem plausible. However, these likely price decreases do not follow the typical pattern of a correction of a speculative bubble, but are more or less the result of falling prime rents that have not been fully captured in prices, yet. The user cost approach has some predictive power, but can only provide an initial pointer towards under- or overvaluations. For instance, structural breaks such as Brexit can change long-term expectations, which cannot be captured properly in a model. However, the approach appears valuable in providing a first assessment. In future, the German Economic Institute will do further research on this topic in order to strengthen its understanding of commercial property markets."
R33|The billion pound drop: the blitz and agglomeration economics in London|This paper exploits locally exogenous variation in the location of bombs dropped during the Blitz to quantify the effect of density restrictions on agglomeration economies in London: an elite global city. Employing microgeographic data on office rents and employment, this analysis points to effects for London several multiples larger than the existing literature which primarily derives its results from secondary cities. In particular, doubling employment density raises rents by 25%. Consequently if the Blitz had not taken place, the resulting loss in agglomeration economies to present day London would cause total annual office rent revenues to fall by $4:5 billion {equivalent to 1:2% of London's annual GDP. These results illuminate the substantial impact of land-use regulations in one of the world's largest and most productive cities.
R33|The Billion Pound Drop: The Blitz and Agglomeration Economies in London|This paper exploits locally exogenous variation in the location of bombs dropped during the Blitz to quantify the effect of density restrictions on agglomeration economies in London: an elite global city. Employing microgeographic data on office rents and employment, this analysis points to effects for London several multiples larger than the existing literature which primarily derives its results from secondary cities. In particular, doubling employment density raises rents by 25%. Consequently if the Blitz had not taken place, the resulting loss in agglomeration economies to present day London would cause total annual office rent revenues to fall by $4:5 billion { equivalent to 1:2% of London's annual GDP. These results illuminate the substantial impact of land-use regulations in one of the world's largest and most productive cities.
R33|The Effects of Flood Insurance on Housing Markets|We analyze the role of flood insurance on the housing markets of coastal cities. To do so we have assembled a parcel-level dataset including the universe of residential sales for three coastal urban areas in the United States - Miami-Dade county (2008- 2015), New York city (2003-2016), and Virginia Beach (2000-2016) - matched with their FEMA flood maps, which characterize the flood risk level for each property. First, we compare trends in housing values and sales activity among properties on the floodplain, as defined by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), relative to properties located elsewhere within the same city. Despite the heightened flood risk in the last two decades, we did not find evidence of divergent trends, suggesting that flood insurance may have cushioned the effects of the increase in flood risk. Secondly, we analyze the effects of the recent reforms to the NFIP. In 2012 and 2014, Congress passed legislation that led to important increases in insurance premia and updates of flood maps. We fail to find an effect of increases in premia on the values of floodplain properties in Virginia Beach and Miami-Dade, but we do find evidence of an effect in New York coinciding with the aftermath of hurricane Sandy. We also find some evidence of price changes for properties that experienced a change in risk classification in the new FEMA flood maps. We conclude that the full effects of the 2012-2014 flood insurance reforms have not yet taken place but will probably materialize in the future.
R33|Information spillover across international real estate investment trusts: Evidence from an entropy-based network analysis|In this study, we unveil information spillover between international real estate markets using an entropy-based network approach for real estate investment trusts (REIT). Our novel approach is simple and yet flexible enough to accommodate the nature and extent of information spillover among several components of the global housing network. For a network of nine leading industrial economies, we unveil static and time-varying information spillover of REIT returns using total transfer entropy, pairwise net transfer entropy and directional (“From”, “To”) transfer entropy. Evidence suggests that the greatest pairwise transfer entropy is from the US to Australia, whereas France, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Singapore are the largest information recipients in the network. The time-varying evolution of total transfer entropy also exhibits a declining trend for the integration of global housing market during our sample period.
R33|On the relevance and perspectives of commercial construction in the EU|This paper presents the current state of construction investments in the European Union and illustrates its development pre-, during and post- the recent economic and financial crisis. Construction investments were affected strongly by the economic turbulences caused by the crisis. In several EU member states construction investments are not yet back to pre-crisis levels. We further illustrate the importance of construction investments for the EU's gross fixed capital formation and in terms of gross domestic product. The analysis then presents potential challenges for the EU's construction sector. Based on the development of office employment in the past, and its current state, it is likely that demand for commercial construc-tion in the form of office buildings will increase in the future. In addition, infrastructure in-vestments must increase in order to meet the current and future needs.
R33|Impact of the German real estate transfer: Tax on the commercial real estate market|The tax burden of real estate transactions in Germany increased considerably since the constitutional reform in 2006. We examine the impact of the real estate transfer tax (RETT) on transactions and (net-of-tax) prices of commercial buildings and vacant commercial lots by means of a fixed-effects panel regression. The empirical analysis shows an association of a rise of the RETT by 1% with a decrease of office transactions by up to 0.41% and reduced prices by up to 0.22%. On the market for other commercial properties, transactions and prices decline by 0.17% and 0.19% respectively following a RETT increase. The negative price effects on the commercial real estate market tentatively indicate tax incidence with the seller. In the case of vacant commercial lots, a RETT increase seems to induce an increase of average prices by 0.36%, denoting tax incidence with the buyer. We find no significant effect on transactions of vacant lots in the data. In addition, we analyze possible neighborhood effects among the states. The empirical evidence for these effects implies that with an average of a 1% RETT increase in the bordering states of one state, the prices for other commercial properties and for vacant lots rise by 0.51% and 0.71% respectively. Hence, the border effect seems to surpass the direct price effect and suggests spatial structural changes in the investment behavior.
R33|Apparent Competition in Two-Sided Platforms|We study a platform’s design of membership and transaction fees when sellers compete and buyers cannot observe the prices and features of goods without incurring search costs. The platform alleviates sellers’ competition by charging them transaction fees that increase with sales revenue, and extracts surplus via membership fees. It prices consumers’ membership below its cost to encourage their search. Examples include malls and online marketplaces. Most malls do not charge for parking while most lease contracts include percentage rents as well as fixed rents. Online marketplaces charge sellers for membership and per transaction while letting consumers access website for free.
R33|Shopping externalities and retail concentration: Evidence from Dutch shopping streets|Why do shops cluster in shopping streets? According to theory, retail firms benefit from shopping externalities. We identify these externalities for the main shopping streets in the Netherlands by estimating the effect of footfall - the number of pedestrians that pass by - on store owner's rental income, which is a composite of the effects of footfall on shop rent and on vacancy rates. We address endogeneity issues by exploiting spatial variation between intersecting streets. Our estimates imply an elasticity of rental income with respect to footfall of 0.25. We find that a shop's marginal benefit of a passing pedestrian is ï¿½ 0.005. It follows that subsidies to retail firms that increase with the levels of footfall generated by these shops are welfare improving. The optimal subsidy to store owners is, on average, 10 percent of the rent, but is higher for retail firms that generate high levels of footfall. Although explicit subsidies are controversial and difficult to implement, our results seem to justify current policy practices which cluster shops by pedestrianisation of shopping streets or by providing subsidised parking for shoppers.
R33|Why are REITS Currently So Expensive?|Over the last several years, the price of listed real estate stocks has been unusually high relative to dividends. I find that neither low interest rates nor low risk premia can account for the high valuation ratios. Lower interest rates have been offset by rising risk premia to keep expected returns close to average. Instead, the market has priced in future income growth on commercial properties far above the growth rates seen in the data. High implied growth rates are less extreme for nontraditional REIT sectors. Income growth expectations are also less extreme for international listed real estate.
R33|Assessing the impact of renewable energy infrastructure on the “tourist value” in rural landscapes: a spatial hedonic approach|Installing greater numbers of renewable energy solutions in France has the potential to generate various negative externalities for the users of rural areas. Wind turbines and overhead power lines can often be seen as “eyesores” which adversely affect the aesthetic qualities of rural landscapes, thus reducing their use value. In this study, we apply the hedonic price method to evaluate this loss of value from the point of view of the tourist industry. Data were collected relating to the prices of rural gîtes (small cottage rentals) in three French regions. Prices were linked to three categories of variables relating to the properties: characteristics of the properties themselves, the surrounding environment, and their proximity to power-related infrastructure. The generalized method of moments was used to deal with spatial autocorrelation of errors. Our results highlighted the importance of comfort and proximity to the coast in determining the rental value of each property. Landscape value was significantly reduced when properties were located close to energy infrastructures. While it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the majority of rural cottages are located at some considerable distance from energy infrastructures, the losses highlighted in this study show that appropriate support mechanisms need to be put in place in affected rural areas.
R33|減損会計は企業投資行動に影響を及ぼすか|減損会計とは、企業が保有する資産価値が減少した場合に、当該資産の貸借対照表上の価額を減らすとともに、減損分を利益額から差し引く会計上の取扱いである。日本では、固定資産の減損会計基準が2005年度から強制適用されたが、景気低迷期にその導入が議論されたこともあり、負の影響を懸念する見方も多かった。一方、先行研究の多くは、減損会計を含む保守的な会計基準には効率的な投資を促す効果があるとしている。本稿では、2000年度から2014年度における上場企業のパネルデータを用い、減損会計が企業の設備投資や土地購入・売却行動に及ぼす影響を調べた結果、以下の点を見出した。第1に、減損計上企業と非計上企業とを比較すると、設備投資率や土地購入率に有意な違いがない場合が多い。第2に、保有土地の時価簿価比率で表される含み益は設備投資率を高める効果を持つが、減損計上の有無は、含み益と設備投資率との関係には影響しない。第3に、減損計上企業における土地売却率は減損計上しない企業における土地売却率を上回る。この傾向は、利益率が上昇傾向にある企業においてより強く観察されており、財務に比較的余裕のある企業が減損の生じている土地を売却して損金を計上するという税務上の動機に基づいた行動の結果である可能性がある。
R33|Foreclosure, REO, and Market Sales in Residential Real Estate|Abstract Assessment of lender and third-party bidder acquired properties at foreclosure auction is provided. Properties acquired at foreclosure auction by third-party bidders transact at a discount to lender dispositions of real estate owned (REO) properties. The discount reflects a reduction in costs associated with lender owned (REO) dispositions and uncertainty faced by third-party bidders. Moreover, there is a ranking in transaction prices among initial purchases by third-party bidders at foreclosure auction, REO sales, non-distressed property sales and the subsequent sales of third-party bidder acquired properties. Third-party bidder auction prices are below REO sale prices, which are below non-distressed property sale prices, which are below the subsequent sale prices of third-party bidder acquired properties. The price spacing by cohort is logical, intuitive and economically justified in a market with rational participants. Implications are also apparent for the measurement of price changes, net sale proceeds and returns to residential real estate.
R33|A Note on the Impact of Unconventional Monetary Policy Shocks in the US on Emerging Market REITs: A Qual VAR Approach|In this paper, we estimate a Qualitative Vector Autoregressive (Qual VAR) model, which combines binary information of Quantitative Easing (QE) announcements with an otherwise standard VAR model that includes US and emerging market Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) returns. The Qual VAR uncovers the Federal Reserve’s latent, unobservable propensity for QE and generates impulse responses for the emerging market REITs returns. The results show that QE has (strong) positively significant, but short-lived, effects on the returns of emerging market REITs.
R33|Die Umsetzung der EU-Richtlinie über Wohnimmobilienkredite<BR>[The Implementation of the EU Mortgage Credit Directive – on the Necessity of a Legislative Amendment]|Zusammenfasssung Die Richtlinie über Wohnimmobilienkreditverträge für Verbraucher wurde bei ihrer Umsetzung in deutsches Recht um neue Regelungen zur Kreditwürdigkeitsprüfung ergänzt. Die „außergewöhnliche“ Geldpolitik der Europäischen Zentralbank ist für den Immobilienmarkt mit Gefahren verbunden, tatsächlich besteht durchaus eine mögliche Konnexität zum Regulierungsvorstoß. Der Beitrag thematisiert die Zielsetzungen der Richtlinie, stellt die neuen Grundsätze einer Kreditwürdigkeitsprüfung der bisherigen Praxis gegenüber und analysiert die Auswirkungen für Banken und potenzielle Kreditnehmer. Der Autor kritisiert die EU-weite Regulierung auf diesem Sachgebiet und konkretisiert Ansatzpunkte einer richtlinienkonformen Änderung der deutschen Umsetzung.
R33|Place-Based Policies and the Housing Market|We study the economic effects of place-based policies in the housing market, by investigating the effects of a place-based program on prices of surrounding owner-occupied properties. The program improved the quality of public housing in 83 impoverished neighborhoods throughout the Netherlands. We combine a first-difference approach with a fuzzy regression-discontinuity design to address the fundamental issue that these neighborhoods are endogenously treated. Improvements in public housing induced surrounding housing prices to increase by 3.5%. The program's external benefits are sizable and at least half of the value of investments in public housing.
R33|Some Remarks on Real Estate Pricing|This paper develops a framework for addressing the omitted variable bias that plagues most real estate research. We incorporate qualitative information from text to control for property attributes that are generally unobserved. The textual information is entered by real estate agents for every property sold on a Multiple Listing Service (MLS). The agents, who arguably have the most local market and property specific knowledge, use the unstructured text to highlight important information that is not clearly conveyed in other areas of the listing. Although the framework can be applied universally in real estate research, we demonstrate its effectiveness in the estimation of agent-owned sales premiums. Similar to previous studies, we find agent-owned premiums between 2% to 6% when no textual information is included. When we include the textual information the agent-owned premiums dissipate. The results suggest that the market distortions reported in Rutherford et al. [2005] and Levitt and Syverson [2008] do not exist.
R33|Risk factors of European non-listed real estate fund returns| This research contributes to a better assessment of risk factors impacting non-listed real estate fund returns. Both macroeconomic and fund-specific factors are considered, additionally taking into account the phase of the real estate cycle. Using a rich database of fund-level data for Europe, we apply panel regression techniques with random effects. Our results highlight the significant impacts of real GDP growth, interest rates, inflation components, money supply and stock market returns in explaining non-listed fund returns. Size, gearing, investment style, vehicle structure and vintage also affect returns, whereas property type does not appear to matter. For comparison purposes, the same analysis is performed for listed and direct real estate. The three kinds of real estate exposure are found to react broadly in the same way to macroeconomic risk factors, although our analyses suggest that non-listed real estate is more akin to direct real estate than it is to securitised real estate.
R33|A Land Tenure Module for LSMS|This paper proposes to fill the important gap in reliable and nationally representative land tenure data by including a Land Tenure Module (LTM) to be linked to multi-purpose household surveys such as the Living Standard Measurement Surveys (LSMS). Developing survey standards to generate globally comparable land data is important for generating data to be used in global and regional land governance monitoring initiatives (SDGs; LPI – UNECA; GLTN/ GLII; VGGT). The LTM can be a cost-effective way to provide data for evidence-based analyses that will help identify the areas where policy action can have the most significant and/or immediate impact, and help in sequencing and prioritizing policy interventions. The paper illustrates important issues that may be analyzed based on such a module in order to motivate its implementation and where the current state of knowledge is constrained by limited data access. To facilitate this integration, a generic LTM is proposed based on an assessment of existing tenure modules and lessons learned from surveys on land tenure. It introduces a basic structure including: (i) ownership and use of agricultural and non-agricultural land and immobile assets on the land, (ii) sources of land acquisition including inheritance, (iii) land transactions, (iv) formal and informal property rights, (v) investments on the land, (vi) land conflicts, (vii) legal knowledge, (viii) gender and property rights, (ix) perceptions of tenure security and (x) trust in land-related institutions.
R33|Lending Pro-Cyclicality and Macro-Prudential Policy: Evidence from Japanese LTV Ratios|Using a unique micro dataset compiled from the real estate registry in Japan, we examine more than 400,000 loan-to-value (LTV) ratios for business loans to draw implications for the efficacy of caps on LTV ratios as a macro-prudential policy measure. We find that the LTV ratio exhibits counter-cyclicality through the business cycle. We also find that borrowers obtaining high-LTV loans performed no worse ex-post than those with lower LTV loans. Our findings imply that a fixed cap on LTV ratios might not only be ineffective in curbing loan volume in boom periods but also inhibit well-performing firms from borrowing.
R33|Rising Sea Levels and Sinking Property Values: The Effects of Hurricane Sandy on New York's Housing Market|Are coastal cities adjusting to rising sea levels? This paper argues that large-scale events have the potential to ignite the process. We examine the effects of hurricane Sandy on the New York City housing market. We assemble a large plot-level dataset with rich geographic data on housing sales in New York City for the period 2003-2015, along with information on which building structures were damaged by the hurricane, and to what degree. Our difference-in-difference estimates provide robust evidence of a negative impact on the price trajectories of houses that were directly affected by Sandy. Interestingly, this is also the case for houses that were not damaged but face high risk of coastal flooding. Our results suggest that Sandy has increased the perceived risk of living in those neighborhoods. We also show that the negative effects on housing prices appear to be highly persistent.
R33|The Concept of the Model for the Selection of Sustainable Office Building Location|The paper presents the concept of the decision-making model facilitating the selection of location for an office building fulfilling the requirements of sustainable construction. The concept of responsible property investing was discussed on the basis of literature studies. Sustainable office buildings are one of the ways of its practical implementation and the location of a building is among the evaluation criteria in sustainable building multicriteria certification systems, so it can improve the rating of a building. The proposed decision model for the selection of location was elaborated on the basis of multicriteria decision analysis applied in the GIS environment. Analytical criteria applied in the model were compiled on the basis of the BREEAM certification system. When the required data and spatial information are applied to this model, it allows to prepare the map of optimal spatial decisions.
R33|25 Years of Free Real Estate Market in Poland. A SWOT Analysis|The aim of this article is a synthetic presentation of the results of the assessment of the current state of the Polish real estate market, achieved after twenty-five years of its functioning in the conditions of market economy. The assessment was based on the SWOT analysis method in which supplementally, for the quantification of individual factors characterising the market, the method of Geneva (indicator method) was used. It was estimated that in 2014 the sum of: • positive characteristics reached a total of 175 points compared to 200 possible (the Polish real estate market does not use approximately 12.5% of the value associated mainly with stimulating demand and the activation of our market for foreign investors); • negative characteristics reached a total of 105 points out of 200 possible (the Polish real estate market is facing the neutralisation of a half of imperfections, resulting mainly from the poor economic condition of households, poor land management in urban areas).
R33|Irodapiaci ciklusok jellemzése a hozam, a bérleti forgalom, az üresedés, a bérleti díjak és az új átadás alapján<BR>[Yields, take-up, vacancy, rents and new supply during office-market cycles]|A tanulmány az irodapiaci ciklusokat öt indikátor alapján vizsgálja. A hozam, a bérleti forgalom, az üresedés, a bérleti díjak és az új átadás idősorait egy minden korábbi kutatásban használtnál bővebb, közel száz város mutatóit tartalmazó globális adatbázison elemeztük. Legkevésbé volatilisnak a hozamok és a bérleti díjak idősorai bizonyultak, míg az új átadás, az üresedés és a bérleti forgalom jóval nagyobb változékonyságot mutatott a vizsgált piacokon. A mutatók késleltetési és előre jelző viszonyait elemezve azt találtuk, hogy az irodapiaci hozamban bekövetkezett változást követően nagyjából három-négy hónapos késéssel azonosítható a reakció az üresedésben és a bérleti forgalomban. A bérleti díjak és az új épületek átadása még lassabban reagált, nagyjából egy év elteltével. Vizsgálatainkat a leggyakrabban használt módszereken kívül ciklusfordulópontok azonosítása alapján is elvégeztük. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: E32, R33.
R33|An Approach to Assess Sustainability of Agricultural Farms|This paper gives an answer to important questions such as: “what is sustainability of farms?” and “how to assess sustainability of farms?”. First, evolution of the “concept” and the major approaches for assessing sustainability of farms is discussed. More adequate definition of the farm sustainability is suggested as ability of a particular farm to maintain its governance, economic, social and ecological functions in a long term. Next, a specific for the conditions of Bulgarian farms framework for assessing farm sustainability is proposed. The later includes a system of appropriate principles, criteria, indicators, and reference values for evaluating governance, economic, ecological and social aspects of farms sustainability as well as an approach for their integration and interpretation. The ultimate objective of this study is to work out an effective framework for assessing sustainability of farms in the specific economic, institutional and natural environment of farms of different types and location, assist farm management and strategies, and agricultural policies and forms of public intervention in agriculture.
R33|Smalholders’ Market Inclusion through Improved Eco-management – The Case of Bulgaria|Enhancing environmental performance is a prospective way for increasing market inclusion, effectiveness and sustainability of small-scale farms around the globe. With a very few exceptions, there are no studies on forms, factors and efficiency of “eco-driven” market inclusion of smallholders in modern supply chains in Bulgaria. This paper presents findings of a first large-scale study on state, driving forces, and efficiency of market inclusion of farms through enhanced eco-management in Bulgaria. First, diverse forms of eco-management in farms with different size, market orientation, product specialization, and location are identified. Second, costs, effects, and efficiency of eco-management are assessed, including the extent the improve eco-performance contributes to increased market inclusion of farms. Third, critical personal, economic, contractual, institutional, etc. factors of managerial choice in the eco-active farms are specified. Forth, perspectives of expansion of this particular mode of market inclusion of Bulgarian smallholdes are estimated. Finaly, directions for improving public policies and business strategies of smallholders in Bulgaria and other countries with similar conditions are suggested..
R33|What is Sustainability of Farms?|This paper attempts to give answer to some important questions, on which there is no agreement among researchers, namely: “what is farm sustainability?”, “what is the relation between farm and agrarian sustainability?”, “which are critical factors of farms sustainability?”, and “how to assess farms sustainability level”. First, evolution of the “concept” of farm sustainability as alternative ideology, new strategy, system characteristics etc. is analyzed and discussed. On that base is suggested adequate definition of farm sustainability as ability of a particular farm to maintain its governance, economic, social and ecological functions in a long term. The final goal is better define farm sustainability and develop an efficient framework for assessing sustainability level of different type of farms.
R33|Unpacking Agrarian and Agri-business Contracts|Analysis of contracts and contractual relations are among the most topical issues in modern management theories and practices. This paper incorporates the interdisciplinary New Institutional and Transaction Costs Economics (combining Economics, Organization, Law, Sociology, Behavioral and Political Sciences) and suggests a holistic framework for analysis of contracts in farming and agri-business sector. First, it specifies type and importance of different mechanisms of governance of agrarian and agri-business activity. Second, it defines the essence, and classifies types and features of agrarian and agri-business contracts. Next, it identifies technological, institutional, behavioral, dimensional, and transaction costs factors for contractual choice, and specifies effective modes for contractual arrangements in agriculture and agri-business. Finally, it determines the effective boundaries and sustainability of farming and agri-business organizations.
R33|Risks and Risk Management in Agri-food Chains|Risks management studies in the agri-food sector predominately focus on the technical methods and the capability to perceive, prevent, mitigate, and recover from diverse risks. In most economic publications the risks are usually studied as another commodity regulated by the market supply and demand, and the farmers “willingness to pay” for an insurance contract modeled. At the same time, the risk management analysis largely ignore a significant “human nature” based (bounded rationality, opportunism) risk, critical factors for the managerial choice such as the institutional environment and the transaction costs, and diversity of alternative (market, private, collective, public, hybrid) modes of risk management. This paper incorporates the interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics and presents a comprehensive framework for analyzing the risk management in the agri-food sector. First, it specifies the diverse (natural, technical, behavioral, economic, policy etc.) type of agri-food risks, and the market, private, public and hybrid modes of their management. Second, it defines the efficiency of risk management and identifies (personal, institutional, dimensional, technological, natural) factors of governance choice. Third, it presents stages in the analysis of risk management and for the improvement of public intervention in the risk governance. Forth, it identifies the contemporary opportunities and challenges for the risk governance in the agri-food chain. Finally, it identifies challenges, assesses efficiency, and present responses of the agri-food risk management after the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan in March 2011.
R33|Property prices and the real sector: comovements in European markets|The paper establishes stylised facts about residential and commercial property prices focusing on 12 European markets over the sample 1984-2013. Using the measure of dynamic correlation and cohesion we look at the medium and long-term dynamics in the real estate markets. We investigate how do comovements within real estate cycles relate to comovements within cycles of real activity variables over time.
R33|El potencial dinamizador de los grandes equipamientos comerciales en espacios metropolitanos. Un análisis comparado en tres realidades españolas|La distribución comercial en grandes equipamientos posee carácter estratégico para la cohesión social y territorial, revistiendo elevada importancia la consideración, en planeamiento territorial y urbanístico, de la evaluación de efectos inducidos por dicha forma de comercio así como su capacidad de prevalencia sobre criterios de ordenación preestablecidos. Esta investigación se plantea la comparación de dinámicas de desarrollo de la actividad en entornos metropolitanos representativos españoles evidenciando su inherente potencial transformador urbano así como las estrategias de emplazamiento seguidas. Los resultados muestran la desviación entre el escenario real de localizaciones y el preconizado por modelos territoriales emanados de la planificación pública.
R33|Analýza cen komerčních nemovitostí v zemích střední Evropy<BR>[Analysis of the Commercial Property Prices in the Central European Countries]|Developments in the commercial property market are an important factor affecting financial stability, especially given their effect on the probability of default of non-financial corporations. This article analyses the development of the office property markets in five central European countries and compares their main indicators with those for Germany. It then formulates a simple error correction model of office property prices in relation to macroeconomic, demographic and structural determinants. The analysis reveals that both demand and supply factors (GDP, inflation and total office space), and partly also the maturity of the credit market, have an effect. Using this model, property prices are identified as having been overvalued in 2006-2008. However, in the CR office space currently appears to be slightly undervalued.
R33|Real Estate And The Great Crisis: Lessons For Macroprudential Policy|Credit conditions have caused real estate booms and busts, owing to an underpricing of credit risk aided by regulatory arbitrage and shadow financing. Across countries, real estate price and credit bubbles have reflected not only inelastic land supply and thin trading, but also the amplification of shocks via backward‐looking price expectations and financing based on distorted prices. Macroprudential lessons from the Great Crisis include preventing excess real estate financing and limiting the amplification and correlation of risks. Nonetheless, the costs and benefits of recent regulations require re‐evaluation amid an ongoing need to address correlated risks from shadow financing and securitization. (JEL G28, E3, R31, R33, R38)
R33|Spatial Planning and Segmentation of the Land Market|In this paper we provide evidence of segmentation of the Dutch land markets by spatial planning into three compartments referring to agricultural, industrial and residential use. We analyze transactions of ready-to-be developed land provided by the Dutch Land Register (Kadaster) and find that residential land is much more expensive than industrial land. We also compare the prices observed in these transactions with prices for agricultural land in the vicinity and find that agricultural land is much cheaper than residential and industrial land.
R33|Development Of Commercial Real Estates In Bulgaria|Commercial real estates (modern shopping centers respectively) are an integral part of urban structure. Their development as real estate objects can be influenced by many factors. The present paper examines factors which determine the profitability of the shopping centers as commercial real estates and offers a comparative analysis with other European markets on key indicators, and on this basis, summarizes the main conclusions and recommendations on opportunities for development of shopping centers in Bulgaria. For the purposes of study, methods such as critical analysis and synthesis, induction and deduction and comparison and expert appraisal are being used. The results of the study are used to outline the main problems facing the shopping centers development in Bulgaria and necessary actions in this area.
R33|Distributional price effects of rent controls in Berlin: When expectation meets reality|"An enormous increase of initial rents in many German cities over the last decade has prompted the current grand coalition to implement a new rent control called ""Mietpreisbremse"" in 2015 (literally a brake on rental prices). This reform aims to stop exploding rents and to provide particularly more affordable rental housing in the lower and medium rental price segment. Since then, rental prices of re-lettings are capped at a local rental index in declared areas. As an exception, newly built flats or those that have been reconstructed extensively are not affected by the reform and landlords may always uphold the rent paid by previous tenant. I apply a classical difference-in-difference strategy and a new changes-in-changes model including covariates in order to analyze both average and distributional price effects of the intervention in Berlin. The basis for empirical results is data on newly offered rental prices from 2012 to 2016 that is also enhanced with the local rental index and previous rents. Thereby, I can define the range of effects one could reasonably expect beforehand. Results indicate that the reform indeed lowered initial rents temporarily. In contrast to the reforms intention, however, significant effects are found only in the upper price segment. The effects also fall short of anticipated expectation and fade out too fast. Meanwhile, newly offered rental prices even outrun the pre-reform level, which highlights the lack of enforcement supplementary. I will therefore argue that the reform so far has failed to meet the intended objective and is poorly targeted."
R33|Real Estate Price Indices and Price Dynamics: An Overview from an Investments Perspective|This article reviews the state of the art in real estate price indexing and the state of knowledge about real estate price dynamics, with a focus on investment property, or income-generating commercial property. Investment properties form a large component of the national wealth and of capital markets and represent a major investment asset class. They are characterized by various types of heterogeneity, including among assets, markets, and data sources, making the study of real estate pricing uniquely challenging. Yet in recent decades, urban economists and econometricians have pioneered major new price indexing methodologies that, combined with new types of data sources, are shedding light on the nature of commercial property price dynamics, revealing both important commonalities and unique differences compared with equities and fixed-income securities pricing.
R33|Energy Codes and the Landlord-Tenant Problem|I estimate the energy efficiency premium in unlabeled office buildings by exploiting variation in mandatory building energy standard implementations, as a result of the U.S. 1992 Energy Policy Act. A more stringent energy code leads to rent and price premiums of approximately 4% and 9%, respectively. Significant heterogeneity in the rent premium is observed based on who pays the utility bills, as would be expected absent asymmetric information about energy conservation characteristics among real estate market participants. The rent and price premiums are larger in hotter, more humid climates, and are consistent with full capitalization of the energy savings from a more stringent standard.
R33|Setting the Standard: Commercial Electricity Consumption Responses to Energy Codes|While green-labeled buildings have been found to sell at a premium compared to nearby controls with similar observable characteristics, the voluntary nature of the labeling decision implies green-labeled buildings may have different unmeasured characteristics that may account for at least a portion of the premium. Therefore, it is unclear whether green-labeled building premiums are a causal effect of the labels. I use data on repeat sales transactions and detailed hedonic characteristics to test whether green-labeled office buildings were selling at a premium before they were labeled, and combine these results with post-labeling price premium estimates to identify realized cost-benefit ratios for green-labeling policies. The data suggest the causal net benefits of green labels range from $11.50-$19.95 per square foot. The estimated net benefits are smaller than previous estimates that have focused solely on the benefits and ignored the potential biases from nonrandom selection.
R33|The spatial decay in commuting probabilities: Employment potential vs. commuting gravity|We show that an employment potential capitalisation model produces estimates of the spatial decay in employment impact on land prices that are very close to the decay observed in commuting data.
R33|A shaky business: Natural gas extraction, earthquakes and house prices|The production of natural gas is strongly increasing around the world. Long-run negative external effects of extraction are understudied and often ignored in (social) cost-benefit analyses. One important example is that natural gas extraction leads to soil subsidence and subsequent induced earthquakes that may occur only after a couple of decades. We show that induced earthquakes that are noticeable to residents generate substantial non-monetary economic effects, as measured by their effects on house prices, also when house owners are fully compensated for damage to their houses. To address the issue that earthquakes do not occur randomly over space, we use temporal variation in the occurrence of noticeable earthquakes while controlling for the occurrence of earthquakes that cannot be felt by house owners. We find that earthquakes that are noticeable with peak ground velocities of above half a cm/s lead to price decreases of 1.9 percent. The total non-monetary costs of induced earthquakes for Groningen are about €170 million (about €600 per household). These results indicate that the non-monetary costs are in the same order of magnitude as the monetary damage costs.
R33|The pricing of embedded lease options|Office leases are generally agreed upon for extended terms, with possible options to leave or to renew in favor of the tenant. Tenants who have no options during the life of their lease expect to pay a lower rent than those who do. In this letter, we built up a conceptual framework based on binomial tree for the pricing of options embedded in a lease contract. Results show that lease options are dependent upon market rents volatility.
R33|Changes in the distribution of rental prices in Berlin|In this paper, I analyze the distribution of rental prices in Berlin using quantile estimates and decomposition methods. These methods have been rarely applied in the field of housing economics but have proven to offer relevant insights into the evolution of price distributions. The shift of rental prices from 2007 to 2012 is split into portions caused by changes in the distributions of the explanatory variables and by changes in their coefficients over time. Two main results stand out: firstly, quantile estimates illustrate the constraint of a mean regression as most coefficients differ substantially between quantiles; secondly, coefficients are the primary source of temporal difference in the distribution of rental prices. On the other hand, changing properties of flats being offered affect the increase in the rental price distribution relatively little.
R33|The other (commercial) real estate boom and bust: the effects of risk premia and regulatory capital arbitrage|The last decade’s boom and bust in U.S. commercial real estate (CRE) prices was at least as large as that in the housing market and also had a large effect on bank failures. Nevertheless, the role of CRE in the Great Recession has received little attention. This study estimates cohesive models of short-run and long-run movements in capitalization rates (rent-to-price-ratio) and risk premiums across the four major types of commercial properties. Results indicate that CRE price movements were mainly driven by sharp declines in required risk premia during the boom years, followed by sharp increases during the bust phase. Using decompositions of estimated long-run equilibrium factors, our results imply that much of the decline in CRE risk premiums during the boom was associated with weaker regulatory capital requirements. The return to normal risk premia levels in 2009 and 2010 was first driven by a steep rise in general risk premia that occurred after the onset of the Great Recession and later by a tightening of effective capital requirements on commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. In contrast to the mid-2000s boom, the recovery in CRE prices since 2010 has been mainly driven by declines in real Treasury yields to unusually low levels. Our findings have important implications for the channels through which macro-prudential regulation may or may not be effective in limiting unsustainable increases in asset prices.
R33|Good and bad innovations in the housing sector - General background and a policy proposal|"Purpose – The purpose is to propose a classification system for techniques to increase awareness of the uncertainties and risk connected to new techniques and materials, especially when the buyer is a non-professional client. The new classification system should increase information flow and decrease the problem occurring in principal-agent relationships in terms of moral hazard. The aim is also to shift the focus of the discussion from the quantity of innovations to how incentives can be created to further ""good"" innovations and to reduce the risk of ""bad"" innovations. The paper explores how housing firms in Sweden, municipal and private firms, are positioning themselves to implement new techniques and contracts in the construction sector. Design/methodology/approach – The paper combines a literature review with an on-line questionnaire in combination with three face-to-face semi-structured interviews. The key data were collected from actors that build for their own management. Findings – The paper reports two main findings. First, actors that build for their own management are risk-averse. Second, it seems that a classification system could be a good way to handle the uncertainties and risk connected to innovations in the housing construction sector. The study also underlines the need for an active public sector which takes responsibility for helping the sector to open up for more firms that will invest in the right kind of innovations. Originality/value – The paper is one of the few that focus on discussing the potential of shifting the focus from the quantity of innovations to how incentives can be created to further ""good"" innovations and to reduce the risk of ""bad"" innovations. Also, it proposes a two-step classification system for new technical innovation to achieve increased transparency and reduced information asymmetry in the construction sector."
R33|Commercial Real Estate, Distress and Financial Resolution: Portfolio Lending Versus Securitization|This paper examines the contrasting influence of portfolio lending and securitization in the resolution of distressed commercial real estate. The empirical analysis utilizes a large and unique data set of distressed commercial mortgages. The data set is constructed based on the recent financial crisis and includes portfolio and securitized loans. The main hypotheses address the marginal impact of portfolio versus securitized loans on the likelihood of resolution, resolution outcome, time to resolution and capital recovery rates. Conditional on a loan becoming troubled, we find that distressed commercial real estate loans held in a portfolio are more likely to be resolved and experience higher foreclosure rates compared to those that are securitized. Furthermore, portfolio loans experience shorter time to resolution and higher capital recovery rates when resolution is relatively swift. Our study is intended to contribute to the growing literature on distressed asset resolution and to provide new perspectives on how different lending options impact the financial resolution and workout process in a distressed commercial mortgage market. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
R33|Expectations of Real Estate Agent Customers|The article presents the results of the survey concerning expectations and ratings of real estate agent customers. The survey results can be used by realtors to match their offer accurately to customers' expectations. It may help them to improve the quality of their services.
R33|Aesthetic Dimension of Urban Revitalisation in Polish and Bulgarian Cities|Culture is an important factor in the process of revitalisation, as it creates a new identity of the place and builds the image of the city. Artistic aestheticization of deteriorated areas is associated with the concept of ‘beauty’, which is relative and interpreted by people in different, individual ways. The ‘beautification’ of cities, which has become a widespread phenomenon, involves investing in the architectural fabric, street furniture, public green spaces or public art. Artists ennoble space, making it unique. The aim of the paper is to admit and analyse a new phenomenon of a conscious use of artistic aestheticization in the processes of revitalisation. The authors have collated the knowledge of these forms in Polish and Bulgarian cities. Based on the research carried out in 2015, artistic aestheticization has a positive effect on the image of revitalised space in the perception of its users.
R33|Before a Fall: Impacts of Earthquake Regulation and Building Codes on the Commercial Building Market|We test whether a major earthquake in one city (Christchurch, New Zealand) affects the prices of earthquake-prone commercial buildings in a city (Wellington) that was unaffected by the disaster. In particular, we test whether the official public declaration of a building as being earthquake-prone (with a corresponding requirement to remediate the building to minimum earthquake code requirements) has an effect on price over and above that experienced by similarly earthquake-prone (but not yet declared) buildings. We distinguish the latter by isolating sales of those buildings that are subsequently declared to be earthquake-prone. We find that in the CBD, the price discount that accompanies an official earthquake-prone declaration averages 45% whereas there is no observable discount on buildings that are subsequently declared earthquake-prone. Consistent with our theoretical model that anticipates forced sale of some officially declared earthquake-prone buildings, the probability of sale of officially declared earthquake-prone buildings rose markedly after the Christchurch earthquakes. Our results therefore show that officially declared earthquake-prone status has a considerable impact on the commercial property market that is separate from the effects of being earthquake-prone but where the building has not (yet) officially received that status.
R33|Legal Issues Relating to the Liability of the Carrier for the Air Carriage of Passengers|The analysis of the problems of the current legislation on the liability of the carrier for the carriage of passengers should cover both inter­nal acts and those of EU law and international treaties, as a result of it are derived existing in the Bulgarian Civil Aviation Act gaps. So that they be overcome made relevant proposals de lege ferenda for amendments to the said leg­islation. The detailed analysis of the national legislation requires comparing it with the right of countries with highly developed air transport. As the Bulgarian legal system follows the con­tinental tradition, as well as receptions of our private right of French law, the latter may serve as a suitable basis for comparative analysis and mapping trends in the development of legislation on issues of liability of the carrier in air transpor­tation passenger.
R33|Pricing in the office rental market in Moscow: hedonic analysis<BR>[Ценообразование На Рынке Аренды Офисной Недвижимости Москвы: Гедонический Анализ]|The article analyzes the pricing of the rental market of office premises in Moscow. Hedonic price model of leasing office space under construction and is estimated by the least squares method. The evaluation model is calculated hedonic price index of the dollar rent offices for the period from 2001 to 2010. The main factors determining a 70 percent variation in the prices of rent offices, are the class of the building and the characteristics of the location and transport accessibility. A number of other characteristics and conditions of the office rental contract also has cost a small but statistically significant effect on the price of the lease. The article emphasizes the importance of using the hedonic index, which takes into account changes in the composition and quality of the objects on the market, instead of simple indicators of the average price for the analysis of long-term trends in real estate markets.
R33|All access: a micro-level case study on the secondary center of Berlin (1871–1936)|In an empirical analysis, I show that in the case of Berlin, Germany (1871–1936), the emergence of the second CBD during the first half of the past century was largely driven by market access generated by rail-based public transport. By applying a multistep measure of accessibility, it can be shown that while the city brought-up several economic centers simultaneously, the area around the Kurfürstendamm revealed a strong initial advantage leading to a rapid clustering of economic activity that consisted even decades after this advantage had vanished (hysteresis effect). Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
R33|Historic Amenities and Housing Externalities: Evidence from the Netherlands|We study the economic effects of public investments in historic amenities by looking at their impact on house prices. We distinguish between direct and indirect effects of investments. A nationwide housing transaction is used as well as data on investments in cultural heritage. A 1 million euro per square kilometre increase in investments in cultural heritage leads to a price increase of 1.5–3.0% of non‐targeted buildings. We do not find evidence that the maintenance state of non‐eligible properties is improved, suggesting that any price effect due to investments in cultural heritage is a direct effect of investments.
R33|Natural Gas Extraction, Earthquakes and House Prices|The production of natural gas is strongly increasing around the world. Long-run negative external effects of extraction are understudied and often ignored in social) cost-benefit analyses. One important example is that natural gas extraction leads to soil subsidence and subsequent induced earthquakes that may occur only after a couple of decades. We show that induced earthquakes that are noticeable to residents generate substantial non-monetary economic effects, as measured by their effects on house prices, also when house owners are fully compensated for damage to their houses. To address the issue that earthquakes do not occur randomly over space, we use temporal variation in the occurrence of noticeable earthquakes while controlling for the occurrence of earthquakes that cannot be felt by house owners. We find that earthquakes that are noticeable with peak ground velocities of above half a cm/s lead to price decreases of 1.2 percent. The total non-monetary costs of induced earthquakes for Groningen are about € 150 million, about € 500 per household. The results also indicate that the non-monetary costs of are in the same order of magnitude as the monetary damage costs.
R33|Retail Agglomeration and Competition Externalities: Evidence from Openings and Closings of Multiline Department Stores in the U.S| From the perspective of an existing retailer, the optimal size of a cluster of retail activity represents a trade-off between the marginal increases in consumer attraction from another store against the depletion of the customer base caused by an additional competitor. We estimate opening and closing probabilities of multi-line department stores (“anchors”) as a function of preexisting anchors by type of anchor store (low-priced, mid-priced, or high-priced) using a bias-corrected probit model with county and year fixed effects. We find strong negative competitive effects of an additional same type but no effect on openings of anchors of another type. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
R33|Spatial Competition and Transport Infrastructure: The Case of Moscow Office Rental Market|This paper studies the geography of competition on Moscow commercial real estate market. We estimate the elasticity of office rental price to the prices of competing objects as a function of the geographical distance. We found that office real estate market in Moscow, although saturated, is surprisingly local. The evidence of price competition exists primarily at a walking distance, and dies down quickly at a distances beyond one kilometer. However, if competing objects are connected by a subway line, the geographical radius of competition extends to up to three kilometers. Thus, in the case of Moscow real estate transportation infrastructure works to integrate local markets and promote competition, although the magnitude of these effects are modest.
R33|Factors That Influence The Value Of Specialized Real Estate Property|For specialized real estate properties is hard to elaborate an opinion on the value of the market because it will have very well explained. A property with limited market is one that has few buyers, at some point, sometimes because of its unique characteristics or because of changing market conditions. Some properties of this kind are a unique concept building, special materials or have an arrangement in space makes them unsuitable for any other use. Typically, these properties are hardly or not at all suitable to the transformations, which are termed immovable property with special purpose.
R33|Efficient Management Of Non-Agricultural Activities For A Sustainable Development Of Rural Entrepreneurship|The non-agricultural economy (small and medium-sized enterprises in industry, services, rural tourism) has a low share in Romania's rural area. To start a business in the countryside can be both an advantage and a risk. The investments in the non-agricultural and food economy, while contributing to gross value added increase through the processing of agricultural and non-agricultural raw products from local resources, have another great advantage, by creating new jobs and by using and maintaining the local (rural) labour, revitalization of rural localities, mainly those in the less-favoured and remote rural areas. The paper presents aspects of the management of small and medium enterprises in agriculture and services, in order to create a concrete analysis framework for sustainable development in rural areas. The socioeconomic analysis based on current data and future forecasts is the basis in drawing conclusions on the possibilities of encouraging a sustainable entrepreneurship in the less-developed regions and also for the economic revitalization.
R33|Carbon emissions from the commercial building sector: The role of climate, quality, and incentives|Commercial buildings play a major role in determining U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, yet surprisingly little is known about the environmental performance of different buildings at a point in time or how the same buildings perform over time. By exploiting a unique panel of commercial buildings from a major electric utility, we study the association between a building's electricity consumption and the physical attributes of buildings, lease incentive terms, indicators of human capital, and climatic conditions. We find that buildings that are newer and of higher quality consume more electricity, contrasting evidence for the residential sector. However, using our panel data set, we document that newer buildings are most resilient when exposed to hotter weather. Those buildings that have a building manager on-site and whose tenants face a positive marginal cost for electricity also demonstrate a better environmental performance.
R33|The floor area ratio gradient: New York City, 1890–2009|An important measure of the capital–land ratio in urban areas is the Floor Area Ratio (FAR), which gives a building's total floor area divided by the plot size. Variations in the FAR across cities remain an understudied measure of urban spatial structure. We examine how the FAR varies across the five boroughs of New York City. In particular, we focus on the FAR gradient over the 20th century. First we find that the gradient became steeper in the early part of the 20th century, but then flattened in the 1930s, and has remained relatively constant since the mid-1940s. Next we identify the slope of the gradient across space, using the Empire State Building as our core location. We find significant variation of the slope coefficients, using both ordinary least squares and geographically weighted regressions. We then identify subcenters, and show that while accounting for them can better capture New York's spatial structure, by and large, the city remains monocentric with respect to its FAR. Lastly, we find a nonlinear relationship between plot sizes and the FAR across the city.
R33|Property Assets Fair Value Accounting Under Uncertainty|Accounting fairness refers mostly to the fair presentation, and therefore, measurement or valuation of an element recognized in the entityâ€™s financial statements. In accounting and finance, fair value is a rational and unbiased estimate of the potential market price of a good, service, or asset. Applying different accounting and valuation methods across firms or countries makes financial statements incomparable to each other. The research objects of the paper are: a literature view of IFRS2 and US GAAP3 principles and accounting standards for fixed assets; a critical perspective of the used accounting frameworks, providing comparison for each framework and each portfolio; the incorporation of uncertainty into the WLC4 methodology for the valuation and management of real property assets. The methodology of WLC with the NPV5 technique of a property asset, are used. These methods are incorporated into a decision-making mathematical model using the PERT 6 probability distribution function for the input variables. The model is applied to a typical property asset (an office building as a part of a companyâ€™s fixed assets portfolio) in order to explore the significance of impacts from changes in structured variables by using the Monte Carlo Simulation. After the above procedure a unique fair value accounting model is founded on the dynamic integration of WLC fundamental concepts and the widely used appraisal measures for property assets with quantitative risk analysis to address the endemic in the property assets uncertainty.
R33|Cinque problemi intorno a perequazione, diritti edificatori e piani urbanistici|Il saggio affronta cinque temi ancora controversi relativi al rapporto tra perequazione, diritti edificatori e piani urbanistici. Il primo paragrafo considera l’impiego generalizzato della perequazione su tutti i suoli urbani. Il secondo considera il tema dell’indice unico contrapposto alla più tradizionale articolazione per classi proprietarie. Il terzo confronta la perequazione e i diritti edificatori con altri strumenti quali in particolare gli accordi di partnership tra pubblico e privato. Il quarto paragrafo considera le possibili contraddizioni in termini di efficacia e di equità laddove si considerino i piani alla scala sovracomunale. Infine, l’ultimo paragrafo esamina gli effetti di retroazione tra il piano urbanistico e i suoi strumenti: in potenza, la perequazione mette in discussione la forma e i contenuti stessi del piano.
R33|The ex-ante impact of conflict over infrastructure settings on residential property values. The case of Paris's suburban zones|The presence of nearby public facilities has an impact on real-estate values; for this reason, the market may reasonably anticipate that public infrastructure projects will affect house prices. But undesirable and semi-desirable facility location choices may be contested by nearby residents, as they are a source of negative externalities or expectations. In Paris's suburban zones, opposition to these infrastructures is frequent, and the official announcement of a project does not automatically mean it will be implemented. Through three case studies, we explore the way in which the expectation mechanism is affected by legal conflicts driven by nearby residents. We suppose that expectations depend on the probability that a given project will be realized. The variation is captured by a hedonic model. As conflicts amplify or reduce the certainty of the new facility's arrival, market perceptions of the infrastructure vary.
R33|An analysis of changes and structure of vacancy rates of commercial premises in Szczecin|This article presents the results of the vacancy rate research of commercial premises in downtown of Szczecin in the years 2011 and 2013. It has been shown that vacancy rates are characterised by a large variation in the location of the premises on different streets and location of premises in buildings as well as changes over time.
R33|The Importance of Sustainable Construction of Office Buildings and its Development in Italy and in the Visegrad Countries (Mainly in Slovakia)|For the real estate sector, environmental sustainability is fundamental not only for matters of social responsibility and contribution to the preservation of the environment, the paper sustains, but also because it can be an element that determines the property value and investors’ attractiveness. Recent years, along with the awareness towards energy and environmental issues, have witnessed an increasing number of tools for evaluating the performance of buildings from the point of view of sustainability. The paper outlines the diffusion of sustainable construction of office buildings in the Visegrad countries /Slovakia (mainly), the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary/ and in Italy, highlighting the necessity to focus both on energy-efficient new buildings and retrofits/refurbishment of the existing ones.
R33|Property Accounting in Commercial Property Management|In large and developed property markets as the UK, institutional investors do not manage their portfolios but rather outsource management operations to specialized companies. Property accounting is one the most important services as it provides important financial information on property performance to owners and users (tenants). In the UK, property accounting, in order to provide unified and transparent reports on costs and revenues is regulated by three basic standards of accounting: Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The RICS standard defines the content, principles of reporting to owners and tenants. Capita is one of the biggest managing companies on the British property market, offering various management services to investors, including accounting, presented in the paper. These highly specialized management services are almost unknown on the Polish property market, and there is no local standardization of property accounting. With the market of institutional investments growth and development, the demand for specialized property management services will increase in Poland and the need for the application or development of the local standards of reporting will emerge
R33|The Agglomeration of Bankruptcy|This paper identifies a new channel through which bankrupt firms impose negative externalities on non-bankrupt peers. The bankruptcy and liquidation of a retail chain weakens the economies of agglomeration in any given local area, reducing the attractiveness of retail centers for remaining stores leading to contagion of financial distress. We find that companies with greater geographic exposure to bankrupt retailers are more likely to close stores in affected areas. We further show that the effect of these externalities on non-bankrupt peers is higher when the affected stores are smaller and are operated by firms with poor financial health.
R33|The Dynamics Of Subcenter Formation: Midtown Manhattan, 1861–1906|Midtown Manhattan is the largest business district in the country. Yet only a few miles to the south is another district centered at Wall Street. This paper aims to understand when and why midtown emerged. We have created a new data set from historical New York City directories that provide the employment location, residence and job for several thousand residents in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. We supplement this with data from historical business directories. The data allow us to describe how, when and why midtown emerged as a center of commerce. We find that midtown arose because of economies of scale related to shopping, rather than congestion in lower Manhattan or wage differentials across the city. Specifically, the evidence suggests that firms moved to midtown to be near retail businesses and other commercial activity in order to be closer to customers, who had been moving north on the island throughout the 19th century. Once several industries moved from lower Manhattan it triggered a spatial equilibrium readjustment in the 1880s, which then promoted the rise of skyscrapers in midtown around the turn of the 20th century, several years before the opening of Grand Central Station in 1913.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R33|Ground Lease Provisions. A Case Study for Leasehold Valuation|This case study examines an office building subject to a ground lease to show the difficulties that arise in the valuation of a negative leasehold interest and suggests a course of action that can be followed to reach a credible estimate of value. The subject of the case is encumbered by an above-market ground lease payment and restrictions on ownership. The suggested valuation methodology is by no means a perfect and all-inclusive treatise of the concept but one that will guide practitioners in the right direction. The methodology applies conventional appraisal techniques while considering the various estates and how they interact with each other. In addition, a framework is presented to estimate investor yield expectations for types of real estate that are thinly traded by segmenting income and building up on the risk-free rate. The following sections will discuss the nuances of the case and offer a technique to estimate the appropriate yield rate and value. This case considers the application of conventional appraisal techniques to a segment of the real estate market that is thinly traded.
R33|Greenfield Shopping Centre Development. The Integration between Environmental Features, Building Design and Investment Analysis at the Decision Making Stage|The Shopping centre is a long term investment in which Greenfield development decisions are often taken based on risks analysis regarding construction costs, location, competition, market and an expected DCF. Furthermore, integration between the building design, project planning, operational costs and investment analysis is not entirely considered by the investor at the decision making stage. The absence of such information tends to produce certain negative impacts on the future running costs and annual maintenance of the building, especially on energy demand and other occupancy expenses paid by the tenants to the landlord. From the investor's point of view, this blind spot in strategy development will possibly decrease their profit margin as changes in the occupancy expenses[ ] have a direct outcome on the profit margin. In order to try to reduce some higher operating cost components such as energy use and other utility savings as well as their CO2 emissions, quite a few income properties worldwide have some type of environmental label such as BREEAM and LEED. The drawback identified in this labelling is that usually the investments required to get an ecolabel are high and the investor finds no direct evidence that it increases market value. However there is research on certified commercial properties (especially offices) that shows better performance in terms of occupancy rate and rental cost (Warren-Myers, 2012). Additionally, Sayce (2013) says that the certification only provides a quick reference point i.e. the lack of a certificate does not indicate that a building is not sustainable or efficient. Based on the issues described above, this research compares important components of the development stages such as investments costs, concept/ strategy development as well as the current investor income and property value. The subjects for this analysis are a shopping centre designed with passive cooling/bioclimatic strategies evaluated at the decision making stage, a certified regional shopping centre and a non-certified standard regional shopping centre. Moreover, the proposal intends to provide decision makers with some tools for linking green design features to the investment analysis in order to optimize the decision making process when looking into cost savings and design quality.
R33|Vob Property Analysis - An Additional Instrument for Assessing Real Estate Collateral in The Banking Industry|The following article gives an overview of new European supervisory requirements for credit institutions concerning real estate finance. VOB Property Analysis and its field of application are also explained in a broader context. VOB's Property Analysis is based upon the common TEGoVA Property and Market Rating (PaM). VOB Property Analysis is basically an instrument for banks to help them fulfil their regulatory obligations, regarding the capital adequacy of loans secured by mortgages.
R33|Urban Resilience: Store Location Dynamics and Cultural Heritage|In this paper we study the relationship between cultural heritage and retail store dynamics at the neighbourhood level in the Netherlands. We analyze the total number of stores, number of vacant stores and number of stores by retail sub-industry in neighbourhoods, thereby focusing on the impact of cultural heritage, while controlling for many other factors. We test whether the presence of cultural heritage has a causal impact on the retail activity in neighbourhoods using an instrumental variables strategy for cross-section data. We also compare the development of the various indicators of retail activity over time in neighbourhoods with and without cultural heritage to investigate a the existence of an impact of historical districts and buildings on urban resilience. We use a unique panel dataset from Locatus which has information on the location and type of stores in the Netherlands over a period of 7 years (2004-2010). The results show that the presence of cultural heritage increases the demand for shopping areas. Therefore, there are more stores in neighbourhoods where cultural heritage is present. We also show that the impact of cultural heritage and distance to the city centre for retail activity slowly changes over time, indicating a continuously changing urban environment. Furthermore, we provide evidence on the resilience of stores within cultural-rich neighbourhoods after the recession started in 2007 using a duration analysis.
R33|Hub Airports, the knowledge economy and how close is close? Evidence from Europe|Airports have stepped beyond the stage of being simply pure infrastructure facilities. Hub airports in particular are considered to function as supra-regional and international gateway infrastructure thus having a decisive impact on firms' competitiveness and stimulating urban development. Hub airports have ? through their capability of concentrating different types of flows, from local to global ? morphed into strategic nodes within the networked economy. Recent studies indicate that hub airports increasingly play a significant role for multi-branch multi-location firms with their decision making process about where to locate. Successively, knowledge-intensive companies have settled their regional, national and sometimes supranational branches in close spatial proximity to primary and secondary airports. Simultaneously to their enhanced functionality, hub airports in Europe are increasingly recognized as general urban activity centres; that is, key assets for cities and regions as economic generators and catalysts of investment, in addition to being critical components of efficient city infrastructure. Hub airports thus represent ? against the backdrop of knowledge intensive firms optimizing physical and relational proximity within their knowledge generation efforts ? a crucial case where new urban functionalities co-produce new emerging urban patterns and vice-versa. The paper will shed light on the following questions: Which role does the knowledge generation process of firms and their respective locational needs play for geographical and relational proximity? What role does the hub airport represent within the value chains of knowledge-intensive companies? What role does an airport assume within a multi-branch firm's decision-making process about locating activities? The paper reflects the empirical results of a research project that compares the firm location behavior at the airports of Amsterdam, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt. We conclude with some recommendations on how airport-linked real estate sites need to be planned in order to reach certain robustness towards the constantly changing spatial needs of its users.
R33|Ein hedonischer Mietpreisindex für Gewerbeimmobilien|Gewerbeimmobilien stellen eine wichtige Anlageklasse für Investoren dar und bestimmen zu einem maßgeblichen Anteil die Kostenstruktur von Unternehmen. Eine effiziente Marktbeobachtung von Gewerbeimmobilien ist aufgrund der eingeschränkten Datenverfügbarkeit bisher nur bedingt möglich. Vor diesem Hintergrund wird im Folgenden exemplarisch ein Mietpreisindex für die Berliner Gewerbeimmobilien entwickelt, der vor allem auch kleinteiligere Angebote berücksichtigt. Dabei werden zwei alternative hedonische Verfahren miteinander verglichen. Demnach sind die Mieten am Berliner Büromarkt in den letzten Jahren deutlich gestiegen, die Mieten für Einzelhandelsflächen haben sich hingegen moderater entwickelt.
R33|Mietpreisentwicklung von Gewerbeimmobilien in deutschen Großstädten|"Verglichen mit Wohnimmobilien stehen Gewerbeimmobilien weniger im Fokus der Öffentlichkeit und der Politik. Trotzdem besitzen sie eine hohe volkswirtschaftliche Relevanz. Aufgrund fehlender Datenquellen ist der Markt jedoch intransparent. Das Internetportal ImmobilienScout24 stellt vor diesem Hintergrund im Rahmen der ""Transparenzoffensive Immobilienwirtschaft"" Angebotsdaten von Mietinseraten für wissenschaftliche Zwecke zur Verfügung. Auf Basis des vom Institut der deutschen Wirtschaft Köln entwickelten hedonischen Mietpreisindexes werden mit diesen Daten die Mietpreisentwicklungen von Gewerbeimmobilien in deutschen Großstädten für den Zeitraum 2008 bis 2013 halbjährlich abgebildet. Demnach ist keine Überhitzung am deutschen Büro- und Handelsimmobilienmarkt festzustellen."
