R39|Pockets of risk in European Housing Markets: then and now|Using household survey data, we document evidence of a loosening of credit standards in Euro area countries that experienced a property price boom-and-bust cycle. Borrowers in these countries exhibited significantly higher loan-to-value (LTV) and loan-to-income (LTI) ratios in the run up to the financial crisis, and an increasing tendency towards longer-term loans compared to borrowers in other countries. In recent years, despite the long period of historically low interest rates and substantial house price increases in some countries, we do not find similar credit easing as before the crisis. Instead, we find evidence of a considerable change in borrower characteristics since 2010: new borrowers are older and have higher incomes than before the crisis.
R39|The relationship between property transaction prices, turnover rates and buyers' and sellers' reservation price distributions|This paper analyzes the relationship between movements in property transaction prices and movements in the underlying reservation price distributions of buyers and sellers and how these movements are linked to time varying turnover rate. A main conclusion in previous research is that transaction prices lag changes in buyers’ reservation price distribution and that an index tracking transaction prices is less volatile than an index tracking buyer reserves. We show that our less restrictive model of search and price formation reverses the volatility result in previous papers in realistic scenarios, i.e., transaction prices may be more volatile than underlying buyer reserves. We model transaction prices and turnover rates as functions of the moments of buyers’ and sellers’ reservation price distributions, the search intensity and the average bargaining power among buyers and sellers respectively. We derive the probability density function of transaction prices as a function of these parameters and hence a Maximum-likelihood estimator of the parameters, which serves as a new method of estimating indexes tracking movements in reservation price distributions from transaction data. We perform simulations where we show that the Maximum-likelihood estimator works as intended.
R39|Location of Co-Working Spaces in the city| The present paper investigates the location patterns and the effects co-working spaces (CWS) generate on the urban context. The focus is on Barcelona, one of the most important creative hubs in Europe in terms of knowledge-based, creative, digital, and sharing economy, and the city hosting the largest number of co-working spaces in Spain. The paper addresses three main questions: 1) Which are the location patterns of co-working spaces in Barcelona? 2) Do CWS agglomerate in the same areas? And, 3) Do CWS coagglomerate with specific firm activities? To do that, this paper uses open data on Barcelona neighbourhoodsâ€™ socioeconomic composition provided by the Statistics Department of the Council of Barcelona and micro-geographic data of private CWS and creative labs in Barcelona. By using Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and Kd functions of agglomeration and coagglomeration, results show that CWS are highly concentrated in central areas of Barcelona where there are greater chances to meet customers and suppliers, the proximity to urban amenities and the fact of being associated to an specific place-image. Moreover, they coagglomerate with specific kinds of firms and to those most related to creative industries. These results are relevant when assessing what it should be the actual goal of urban policies in Barcelona. Keywords: co-working spaces, distance-based methods, agglomeration, coagglomeration, Barcelona. JEL: R00, R39, Z00
R39|Trends der Nahversorgung in ländlichen Räumen|Seit Jahrzehnten ist der Lebensmitteleinzelhandel von einem Strukturwandel hin zu weniger und größeren Geschäften gekennzeichnet. Gerade in kleineren Orten ländlicher Räume bestehen daher Probleme, die Versorgung mit Gütern des täglichen Bedarfs in fußläufiger Entfernung, das heißt die Nahversorgung, sicherzustellen. Um die bestehenden Herausforderungen hinreichend zu analysieren und Lösungen zu entwickeln, müssen die aktuellen Trends der Nahversorgung untersucht und mit Blick auf ihre potentiellen Wirkungen auf ländliche Räume eingeschätzt werden. Vor diesem Hintergrund wertet das vorliegende Working Paper aktuelle Studien und die wissenschaftliche Literatur mit besonderem Fokus auf den Lebensmitteleinzelhandel und den Onlinehandel aus. Im Ergebnis zeigt sich die Verfestigung seit langem anhaltender Trends sowie das Aufkeimen neuer Trends, deren Beständigkeit noch abzuwarten ist. Anhaltende Trends sind der sich intensivierende Wettbewerbsdruck, der in den letzten Jahren weniger über den Preis als über Auswahl und Qualität ausgeübt wird, die Marktkonzentration weniger großer Ketten im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel sowie der Ersatz kleinerer Märkte durch größere, um eine hinreichende Auswahl für die sich ausdifferenzierende Nachfrage bereitstellen zu können. Zudem wird das Einkaufen angesichts zunehmender Zeitknappheit eher als Last empfunden, was zu seltenerem Einkauf, mehr Kopplung von Einkäufen und Wegen sowie Rückgängen beim Marktanteil sehr großflächiger und daher unübersichtlicher Formate führt. Damit ist nach wie vor die Konzentration auf das Auto als Verkehrsmittel zumindest in ländlichen Räumen verbunden. Dabei steigt die Automobilität gerade auch bei den Senioren an und die Notwendigkeit einer fußläufigen Erreichbarkeit von Angeboten verringert sich dadurch. Eine neuere Entwicklung ist demgegenüber, dass die Zahl der Lebensmittelgeschäfte zwar noch schrumpft, dass dieser Rückgang aber im Vergleich zur zweiten Hälfte der 2000er Jahre deutlich an Intensität verloren hat. Des Weiteren weisen Verbraucherbefragungen darauf hin, dass sich die für Deutschland typische hohe Preissensibilität etwas reduziert hat und sich die Verbraucher zunehmend an der Warenqualität orientieren. In der Folge gleichen sich Supermärkte und Discounter hinsichtlich Warenangebot und Ladengestaltung zunehmend an, wodurch Potentiale für neue Formate, wie Online-Handel, mobile Versorger und Kleinflächenkonzepte, entstehen könnten. In Bezug auf den Online-Handel mit Lebensmitteln zeigt sich jedoch, dass die Lieferkosten gerade in ländlichen Räumen hoch, aber die Zahlungsbereitschaft der Verbraucher gering ist, sodass sich das starke Wachstum bisher auf die Verdichtungsräume konzentriert und das Potential des Online-Handels beschränkt sein dürfte. Auch neuere Modelle, in denen Bürger die Versorgung auf der letzten Meile im Zuge der sogenannten Mitmachlogistik übernehmen, dürfte vermutlich für bestimmte urbane Milieus interessant sein, insgesamt aber wie zumindest momentan der Online-Handel eher auf eine Nische im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel beschränkt bleiben, sodass keine schnelle Lösung von Nahversorgungsprobleme in ländlichen Räumen absehbar ist.
R39|Forecasting house prices in Italy|Forecasting house prices is a difficult task given the strong relationship between real estate markets, economic activity and financial stability, but it is an important one. This paper evaluates the out-of-sample forecasting performance of various models of house prices in a quasi-real time setting. Focusing on Italy, we consider two structural models (using simultaneous equations) and a Bayesian VAR and compute both conditional and unconditional forecasts. We find that the models perform better than a simple autoregressive benchmark; however, the relative forecast accuracy depends on the forecast horizon and also changes over time. For the full sample period the simultaneous equation model, which takes into account credit supply restrictions and real estate taxation, shows the best performance measured in terms of root mean squared forecasting error (RMSFE). In the first part of the sample (2005-2010), medium-term forecasts of house prices greatly benefit from conditioning on the evolution of households’ disposable income, whereas from 2010 onwards the path of the stock of mortgages becomes important.
R39|Non-Tariff Barriers and Goods Trade: a Brexit Impact Analysis|This paper estimates the potential loss in trade between Ireland and the United Kingdom arising from increases in non-tariff barriers following the UK’s exit from the European Union. Using a difference gravity specification, we estimate a 9.6 per cent decline in trade flows between the UK and Ireland from an increase in border waiting times. This equates to a 1.4 per cent decline in total Irish exports and a 3.1 per cent decline in total Irish imports. We also present evidence of heterogeneity in the exposure (measured by time-sensitivity) across different types of goods, with beverages,fresh foods and raw materials being most exposed. For trade in fuels, chemicals and imperishable foods we do not find evidence of an effect from an increase in time.
R39|The good MOOC and the universities|We propose a model to analyze competition between an on-line course and a traditional brick-and-mortar supply for higher education. The brick and mortar supplier is physically located and students pay a transportation cost to attend the traditional course. On the contrary, the on-line course is free, without transportation cost but students incurred a fixed homogeneous disutility when choosing this type of course. We derive the optimal fee policy of a single university as a function of its location and the fixed cost associated with the on-line course. We also study the impact of distant learning on the competition between two brick and mortar universities. One university is assumed to enjoy a central position, whereas the other one is located at the extreme left of the town. We discuss equilibria and market sharing in non-regulated (i.e pure fee competition) and regulated (i.e. quantity competition) settings. Finally, public issues are addressed. In particular, the socially optimal provision of MOOC and the supply of MOOC by universities are carefully discussed.
R39|Where Did Our NIMBY Go? The Spatial Concentration of Waste Landfill Sites in Japan|"This study investigates the spatial concentration of waste landfill sites over two decades. Using a unique dataset of 2,164 industrial-waste landfill sites from 1992 to 2012, we find a persistent spatial concentration of sites managed by private companies. The empirical results show that the economic factors and the existence of other waste-related facilities have a positive effect on the location of private landfill sites. Interestingly, this relationship was fairly stable for 20 years despite a significant decline in the number of sites in operation. The results suggest the difficulty in addressing NIMBY ""not in my backyard"" issues without public intervention."
R39|Human-Capital Externalities in China|This paper provides evidences of heterogeneous human-capital externality using CHIP 2002, 2007 and 2013 data from urban China. After instrumenting city-level education using the number of relocated university departments across cities in the 1950s, one year more city-level education increases individual hourly wage by 22.0 percent, more than twice the OLS estimate. Human-capital externality is found to be greater for all groups of urban residents in the instrumental variable estimation.
R39|Equilibrium-Disequilibrium Dynamics of the US Housing Market, 2000-2015: A Quantal Response Statistical Equilibrium Approach|In this article, we demonstrate that a quantal response statistical equilibrium approach to the US housing market with the help of maximum entropy method of modeling is a powerful way of revealing di erent characteristics of the housing market behavior before, during and after the recent housing market crash in the US. In this line, a maximum entropy approach to quantal response statistical equilibrium model (QRSE), introduced by Scharfenaker and Foley (2017), is employed in order to model housing market dynamics in di erent phases of the most recent housing market cycle using the S&P Case Shiller housing price index for 20 largest- Metropolitan Regions, and Freddie Mac housing price index (FMHPI) for 367 Metropolitan Cities for the US between 2000 and 2015. Estimated model parameters provide an alternative way to understand and explain the behaviors of economic agents, and market dynamics by questioning the traditional economic theory, which takes assumption for the behavior of rational utility maximizing representative agent with self-fulfilled expectations as given.
R39|Do behaviours in cultural markets affect economic resilience? An analysis of Italian regions| The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relation between the economic resilience and cultural behaviour, resorting to the evidence provided by 20 Italian regions at the time of Great Recession. We consider specific cultural behaviours, which provide a specific meaning of culture; its relation with the economic resilience of regions is analysed. We document that higher levels of supplied and demanded quantity of cultural goods in a region are associated with higher regional economic resilience as measured by the ability of limiting employment drop; the relation with the considered cultural behaviours is weaker in the case of economic resilience as measured by the ability of limiting income drop. We propose possible explanations for this asymmetry.
R39|How do Stocks in BRICS co-move with REITs?|This paper investigates BRIC markets’ integration and segmentation between REITs and stock indices, and the possibility of establishing “wealth” and “credit” effects. The analysis of the relationship is based on updated techniques in time series using the concepts of fractional integration and cointegration and Granger causality. This allows us to look at bi-directional long-run equilibrium relationships between the two variables in the five countries. The results indicate that all the series are highly persistent, with orders of integration around 1. However, we do not find any evidence suggesting long run equilibrium relationships between the REITs and the stocks. Meanwhile, causality is bidirectional in the case of South Africa, thus both “wealth effect” and “credit effect” exist, while only “credit effect” is established in India and Russia.
R39|The exact solution of spatial logit response games|This paper proposes a logit response game with a spatial social structure and solves it exactly. We derive closed-form solutions for the strategy choice probabilities, the spatial correlation function of strategies of distant players, and the expected utility. We study how the probability of adopting a cooperative strategy in a prisoner’s dilemma game and the probability of adopting Pareto efficient strategies in a cooperation game are affected by changes in the parameter that expresses payoff-responsiveness.
R39|Aglomeración de sectores intensivos en conocimiento: una aproximación intra-urbana| Este trabajo analiza los procesos de aglomeración de sectores intensivos en conocimiento a efectos de determinar la intensidad y el alcance especial de las economías de aglomeración que explican la concentración de determinadas actividades en unas áreas muy concretas de las grandes ciudades. Para ello se utilizan datos de empresa procedentes del Registro Mercantil. A partir de esos datos se calculan dos funciones relativas basadas en la distancia (M y m) que permiten analizar tanto las dinámicas de aglomeración a nivel de sectores concretos como las de coaglomeración entre parejas de sectores. Nuestros resultados preliminares apuntan a unas especificidades sectoriales, en forma de pautas de aglomeración diferenciadas, y urbanas, dado que la base de datos contiene información de empresas localizadas en las áreas metropolitanas de Madrid y Barcelona. Palabras clave: economía urbana, funciones M, funciones m, aglomeración Códigos JEL: R00, R39
R39|Estimating location values of agricultural land|“Bodenrichtwerte” reflect the average location value of land plots within a specific area. They constitute an important source of information that contributes to price transparency on land markets. In Germany, “Bodenrichtwerte” are provided by publicly appointed expert groups (Gutachterausschüsse). Using empirical data from Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania between 2013 and 2015, this article examines the relation between “Bodenrichtwerten” and statistically determined location values. It turns out that “Bodenrichtwerte” tend to underestimate location values of arable land by 11.5 percent on average. This underestimation can be traced back to the pronounced increase of land prices in the observation period. As an alternative to the expert-based determination of location values, we suggest a nonparametric smoothing procedure that rests on the Propagation-Separation Approach. The application of this data-driven procedure achieves an accuracy comparable to that of official “Bodenrichtwerte” at the one-year ahead prediction of location values without the requirement of expert knowledge.
R39|Modified Sharpe Ratios in Real Estate Performance Measurement: Beyond the Standard Cornish Fisher Expansion| An important component in the analysis of real estate performance and allocation is the efficient calibration of the distribution of returns. The classical method is to compute market or sub-market returns and volatilities, and to then calculate the standard performance measure, namely the Sharpe ratio. This measure is only based on the first two moments of the return distribution. Therefore, a significant weakness of this method is that it implicitly assumes that this distribution is Gaussian (if not, the approach may lead to a bad fit for the distribution). In fact, risk comes not only from volatility but from higher moments of the distribution, such as skewness and kurtosis. In order to resolve this issue, we focus on another risk-adjusted performance measure, one that takes the Value-at-Risk (VaR) as the risk measure, as was adopted by the Basel II regulation directive. This criterion is based on specific quantiles of the distribution of returns. When the VaR is computed from the Cornish Fisher expansion, the corresponding risk-adjusted performance measure is called the modified Sharpe ratio. Usually, its computation is based on the first four moments of the return’s distribution. However, this methodology can exhibit several pitfalls, and thus, this paper shows how to make proper use of this tool. The usefulness of the proposed methodology is illustrated through an empirical application to optimal portfolio allocation in commercial real estate, using the IPD database. We find that markets that appear more desirable using simple Sharpe ratios bear, in reality, higher risk when the distribution of returns is taken into account in a more appropriate manner. Institutional investors may find that the technique proposed here is useful in that it allows them to consider non-normality in real estate performance analysis.
R39|Estimating Location Values of Agricultural Land| “Bodenrichtwerte” reflect the average location value of land plots within a specific area. They constitute an important source of information that contributes to price transparency on land markets. In Germany, “Bodenrichtwerte” are provided by publicly appointed expert groups (Gutachterausschüsse). Using empirical data from Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania between 2013 and 2015, this article examines the relation between “Bodenrichtwerten” and statistically determined location values. It turns out that “Bodenrichtwerte” tend to underestimate location values of arable land by 11.5 percent on average. This underestimation can be traced back to the pronounced increase of land prices in the observation period. As an alternative to the expert-based determination of location values, we suggest a nonparametric smoothing procedure that rests on the Propagation-Separation Approach. The application of this data-driven procedure achieves an accuracy comparable to that of official “Bodenrichtwerte” at the one-year ahead prediction of location values without the requirement of expert knowledge.
R39|Analiza odporności inwestycji w nieruchomości biurowe na wzrost kosztów kredyt lub stopy pustostanów<BR>[Analysis of the robustness of office real estate investment when credit costs or vaccancy rates increase]|This paper presents the analysis of the robustness of office investment when the credit costs or the vaccancy rate increases. The analysis is performed on the average data that was obtained from 10 class B office buildings which are located in Warsaw. The data was collected by the Narodowy Bank Polski.
R39|Mortgage Supply and Housing Rents|We show that a contraction of mortgage supply after the Great Recession has increased housing rents. Our empirical strategy exploits heterogeneity in MSAs' exposure to regulatory shocks experienced by lenders over the 2010-2014 period. Tighter lending standards have increased demand for rental housing and have led to higher rents, depressed homeownership rates and an increase in rental supply. Absent the credit supply contraction, annual rent growth would have been 2.1 percentage points lower over 2010-2014 in MSAs where lending standards rose from their 2008 levels.
R39|Does conflict matter? Spatial distribution of disposal sites in Japan|Abstract This study is an empirical investigation of the location of industrial waste disposal sites in Japan. We found some evidence of spatial concentration of industrial waste disposal sites in area with other waste-related facilities. In addition, we found a higher number of industrial waste disposal sites per capita in municipalities that had not experienced conflict relating to the construction of disposal sites. Our results suggest that companies may decide to locate disposal sites in areas in which other waste-related facilities already exist and/or where there is less citizen conflict over their construction. This would explain why there is a spatial concentration of unwanted facilities in some areas.
R39|Creative industries and firm creation: disentangling causal effects through historical cultural associations| In the last decade policy makers and scholars have highlighted creative industriesâ€™ capacity to stimulate economic dynamism. However, there is still some debate about the potential effect of reverse causality on this relationship, as CIs may also be attracted to successful areas. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to disentangle the role played by the existing spatial concentration of these kinds of activity on new firm creation. In order to deal with this potential reverse causality issue this paper relies on an instrumental variable approach. The main statistical source is the REIC (Catalan Manufacturing Establishments Register), which has plant-level microdata on the location of plants in Catalan municipalities between 2002 and 2007. By using, for the first time, the foundation of cultural associations and urban population as historical instrumental variables, the results confirm CIsâ€™ potential for new firm creation. JEL classifications: R39, Z100 Keywords: creative industries, cultural associations, industrial location, IV
R39|European Union and Romanian Tourism – ß and s Convergence in the Economic Development Regions of Romania|At present, both in Romania and in Europe, tourism tends to become one of the biggest industries, with great development possibilities in the future. The economic development of Romania including tourism benefits from the support of the European Union, and has the purpose to reduce the gaps in this concern, compared to both the European Union average and more developed countries. The purpose of this paper is to analyse ß and s convergence in the 8 Economic Development Regions of Romania by a tourism approach. The concept of ß-convergence represents the process of quicker development of poor regions than the rich ones, and s-convergence is evaluating the process of decrease of regional economic disparities in time. The analysis based on ß-convergence was performed using econometric modelling techniques of linear correlation. For s-convergence, we measured the dispersion of real GDPT per in habitant by the use of the variation coefficient t ? . The purpose is to check the hypothesis according to which the ß-convergence approach and the s- convergence concept can lead to different results for the Economic Development Regions of Romania. The period analysed is between 2007 and 2013.
R39|The role of consumer networks in firmsÂ’ multi-characteristics competition and market share inequality|We develop a location analysis spatial model of firmsÂ’ competition in multi-characteristics space, where consumersÂ’ opinions about the firmsÂ’ products are distributed on multilayered networks. Firms do not compete on price but only on location upon the productsÂ’ multi-characteristics space, and they aim to attract the maximum number of consumers. Boundedly rational consumers have distinct ideal points/tastes over the possible available firm locations but, crucially, they are affected by the opinions of their neighbors. Proposing a dynamic agent-based analysis on firmsÂ’ location choice we characterize multi-dimensional product differentiation competition as adaptive learning by firmsÂ’ managers and we argue that such a complex systems approach advances the analysis in alternative ways, beyond game-theoretic calculations.
R39|Real Estate Research in Europe|We investigate the evolution from 2000 to 2015 in the proportion of papers published by authors with a European affiliation in the three main international real estate journals. Then, we analyze papers with at least one European author and/or concentrating on Europe published from 2008 to 2015 in the two main European real estate journals by authors’ country of affiliation, by country of study and by theme. Finally, we analyze linkages between country of affiliation and country of study and theme, respectively. Our results show that the proportion of papers published by European authors in the three main international real estate journals has increased during the 2000-2015 period. Our analyses of papers published in the two European real estate journals suggest that U.K.-based researchers are the most prolific. There is also a strong ‘home bias’ in that authors largely focus on the country in which they are based. The interest in housing and valuation increased markedly during the period. Finally, we report linkages between country of affiliation and theme.
R39|Firm geographic location and voluntary disclosure|This study aims to shed light on the effect of a firm’s geographic location on its voluntary disclosure policy. It hypothesizes that a firm’s geographic distance from metropolitan areas increases the cost of oversight of managerial actions, which creates incentives for remotely located firms to make more voluntary disclosures in their annual reports that improve information available to investors and hence mitigate agency conflicts. Based on a sample of 260 French listed firms spanning the period 2007–2010, we find support for our hypothesis that as a firm’s distance from the Paris region increases, its level of voluntary disclosure in annual reports increases as well. This is consistent with the notion that remote firms are likely to pre-commit to higher voluntary disclosure so as to reduce oversight costs arising from geographic remoteness and mitigate agency conflicts. Our results are robust to alternative measures of voluntary disclosure, to several geographic location proxies, and to alternative estimation techniques. Collectively, they confirm the positive effect of distance on the extent of voluntary disclosure.
R39|The baraccati of Rome: internal migration, housing, and poverty in fascist Italy (1924-1933)|"Newly discovered archival material is used to document the standard of living of slum dwellers in fascist Rome. As part of the regime's effort to suppress growing shanty towns in the capital, the Governorate of Rome conducted a census in 1933, gathering information on the identity and living conditions of their inhabitants, the ""baraccati"". The paper analyzes the mostly migrant families of the shanty towns, identifying their social and demographic characteristics."
R39|A Review Of Corporate R&D Intensity Decomposition|No abstract is available for this item.
R39|Corporate R&D intensity decomposition: Theoretical, empirical and policy issues|Research and development (R&D) indicators are increasingly used not only to facilitate international comparisons, but also as targets for policies stimulating research. An example of such an indicator is R&D intensity. The decomposition method of R&D intensity was conceived with the aim of evaluating aggregate R&D intensity and explaining the differences in R&D intensity between countries. For policy purposes, it is particularly important to determine whether the differences are intrinsic (e.g. due to firmsâ€™ underinvestment in R&D) or structural (e.g. due to differences in the sectors that make up an economy). Despite its importance for analytical purposes, the theoretical and methodological framework enabling decomposition of corporate R&D intensity has been elaborated only recently, and it is still not commonly used in the literature. Moreover, examination of the R&D intensity of firms in different industries and at different layers of aggregation leads to mixed results, the reasons for which are not fully understood. This paper aims to review the theoretical and methodological frameworks of corporate R&D intensity decomposition and how it is applied in the literature in order to determine the policy implications of empirical results that at first sight may seem to be contradictory. More specifically, this paper surveys the literature to determine (i) the theoretical framework of determinants of corporate R&D intensity, (ii) the methodologies that have been put in place to decompose corporate R&D intensity and the empirical results reached and (iii) the likely reasons for the contrasting results. Finally, the paper points out the possible policy implications and suggests some potential avenues for future research in this area.
R39|Institutional Perspective To Business Localization|The paper aims to assess the synergic impact of institutions, geography and culture on the decision of localization of operations and individuals. For this purpose, we will identify factors influencing the spatial distribution of operations and suggest an analysis of typology and institutions favorable for economic performance. We conclude that the benefits resulting from agglomerations would not be possible without inclusive political and economic institutions that allow exploitation of market opportunities, encourage technological innovation and investment in people and mobilize talents and skills of a large number of individuals
R39|The Development of a Monument Town House into a Gastronomy Business|The development of historic monuments for the needs of a gastronomy business is an important area of theoretical considerations and exemplifies the trends occurring in the business practice. The article presents the chosen aspects determining the development process of a historic building for the needs of gastronomy. It describes the characteristics based on which the term town house can be defined. The author presents the selected factors to be considered when opening a restaurant. The main part of the article relates to the conditions which must be considered when developing a monument real estate into a gastronomy business.
R39|La proximidad geográfica en el contagio del fracaso empresarial en la pyme: Una aplicación empírica con el modelo probit espacia/The Geographic Proximity in the Spillover Effects of Business Failure in SMes: Empirical Application with the Spatial Probit Model|Este trabajo analiza el efecto de contagio en el fracaso empresarial como consecuencia de la proximidad geográfica entre empresas de reducido tamaño. Para ello, se desarrolla una aplicación empírica sobre una base de 2.710 pymes españolas localizadas en el municipio de Murcia. Con esta información, se estima un modelo de regresión espacial probit a partir del cual se contrasta la significatividad del efecto del contagio empresarial. Nuestros resultados indican que la probabilidad de fracaso de una pyme, no solo depende de las características específicas de cada empresa, sino que también influye la probabilidad de fracaso de empresas geográficamente próximas. Factores asociados a interacciones de carácter social y/o económico entre los agentes vinculados a las distintas empresas de una misma región estarían detrás de estos resultados. This paper tests the role of spillover effects derived from the geographic proximity among reduced size firms in business failure. To get this purpose, we develop an empirical application on a sample of 2.710 Spanish Small, Medium size Enterprises (SMEs) located in the region of Murcia. With this information, we estimate a spatial probit regression model to contrast the significance of business spillover effects in business failure models. Our results show that the probability of business failure in SMEs depends not only on its own characteristics but also on the probability of failure of geographically close firms. Factors associated with social and/or economic interactions among the agents linked to the different firms in the same region would be behind these results.
R39|The role of networks in firms’ multi-characteristics competition and market-share inequality|We develop a location analysis spatial model of firms’ competition in multi-characteristics space, where consumers’ opinions about the firms’ products are distributed on multilayered networks. Firms do not compete on price but only on location upon the products’ multi-characteristics space, and they aim to attract the maximum number of consumers. Boundedly rational consumers have distinct ideal points/tastes over the possible available firm locations but, crucially, they are affected by the opinions of their neighbors. Our central argument is that the consolidation of a dense underlying consumers’ opinion network is the key for the firm to enlarge its market-share. Proposing a dynamic agent-based analysis on firms’ location choice we characterize multi-dimensional product differentiation competition as adaptive learning by firms’ managers and we argue that such a complex systems approach advances the analysis in alternative ways, beyond game-theoretic calculations.
R39|Bubbles in US regional house prices: evidence from house price–income ratios at the State level| We investigate the presence of bubbles in the US house price-income ratio at the State level by applying the recent time series-based econometric test to data from January 1975 to December 2014. We find evidence of bubbles in several States in the 1980s (i.e. California, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New York, etc.), which coincides with some existing studies that investigate housing bubbles or booms and busts using a range of alternative approaches. Our results show the existence of a housing bubble that originates in the early 2000s and collapses in the mid-2000s in more than 20 States and the District of Columbia concluding that the bubbles of the 2000s were more widespread than the 1980s, which is of special interest and importance. Our results seem to be in agreement with the talk given by Alan Greenspan in 2005, who suggest no sign of a nationwide housing bubble but a lot of local bubbles. We also study the importance of the regression model specification with/without an intercept and the regression model with an intercept could lead to false-positive identification of bubbles.
R39|Microgeography of innovation in the city: Location patterns of innovative firms in Berlin|This paper investigates the micro-location pattern of innovative and non-innovative firms in Berlin using detailed information on the firms' addresses and their local environment. The study employs a unique, representative panel data set of Berlin-based firms from manufacturing and services covering a five-year period (2011-2015) and applying the standard concepts and measurement approaches used in the Community Innovation Surveys. While controlling for firm size, age and sector, we find product innovators and R&D performing firms located closer to research infrastructures, start-ups and other firms from the same industry. They tend to prefer more dynamic neighbourhoods and avoid very densely populated areas. For process innovators, no significant differences from non-process innovators are found. Firms are more likely to introduce new-to-market innovations if other firms in their direct neighbourhood had introduced such innovations in the previous period, but also if firms with such innovations have moved out of their neighbourhood. The 'creative environment' of a firm in terms of bars, cafes, clubs, leisure facilities or cultural locations does not seem to be linked to the innovative activity of firms.
R39|Supply chains for innovation activity in regional industrial systems in Poland – some evidence from empirical research|Space and relations with suppliers and customers are significant determinants of innovativeness in industry not only in Poland, but also in much more developed countries. In industrial systems at their early phases of development, high tech solutions are usually owned by a relatively small number of enterprises, usually foreign ones. It affects the slow and limited diffusion of knowledge in regions without connection to an international chains of knowledge flow. In a such cases enclaves of innovation usually have a one-sided rather than system character based on the synergy of events. This research study has proved that described conditions are important for innovation activity in every regional industrial system, therefore these factors should be considered in innovative strategies.
R39|Real estate markets and macroprudential policy in Europe|Boom-bust cycles in real estate markets have been major factors in systemic financial crises and therefore need to be at the forefront of macroprudential policy. The geographically differentiated nature of real estate market fluctuations implies that these policies need to be granular across regions and countries. Before the financial crisis that started in 2007 property markets were overvalued in a range of European countries, but much like in other constituencies active policies addressing this were an exception. An increasing number of studies suggest that borrower-based regulatory policies, such as reductions in loan-to-value or debt-to-income limits, can be effective in leaning against real estate booms. But many of the new macroprudential policy authorities in Europe do not have clear powers to determine them. Moreover, the cross-border spillovers they may give rise to suggest the establishment of a well-defined macroprudential coordination mechanism for the single European market. JEL Classification: G01, G28, R39, G17, E5
R39|Knowledge spillovers in cities: An auction approach|This paper proposes a micro-foundation for knowledge spillovers. I model a city in which free knowledge transfers are bids by experts to entrepreneurs who auction jobs. These knowledge bids resemble a consultant's pitch to a potential client. Two fundamental properties of knowledge underlie the model: First, it is often necessary to reveal some knowledge to demonstrate its value. Second, knowledge is freely reproducible. Larger cities generate more meetings between experts and entrepreneurs, resulting in more learning and better matches. Larger cities also foster competition for jobs, which motivates experts to raise their knowledge bids. These results demonstrate how competitive behavior can be a source of agglomeration economies, and contribute to explain the higher productivity of urban workers.
R39|Industry localization, distance decay, and knowledge spillovers: Following the patent paper trail|This paper investigates Alfred Marshall’s hypothesis that knowledge spillovers increase where industries are localized. At the same time, we take a fresh look at the role of distance in the diffusion of knowledge spillovers. Relying on a cited-citing gravity-like equation with high-dimensional fixed effects that control for multiple sources of observed and non-observed heterogeneity, we implement a Poisson pseudo-maximum-likelihood (PPML) estimator. We find that knowledge spillovers correlate positively with industry localization and that the agglomeration of an industry can offset the adverse effect of distance. The results also corroborate the distance decay effect uncovered in earlier research. Our new approach to estimate the PPML with two high-dimensional fixed effects should prove valuable in applications to a variety of other problems in economics, such as the estimation of gravity equations widely used in modeling migration, trade and other flows among countries and regions.
R39|The impact of lease structures on the optimal holding period for a commercial real estate portfolio|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the impact of lease duration and lease break options on the optimal holding period for a real estate asset or portfolio. Design/methodology/approach - – The authors use a Monte Carlo simulation framework to simulate a real estate asset’s cash flows in which lease structures (rent, indexation pattern, overall lease duration and break options) are explicitly taken into account. The authors assume that a tenant exercises his/her option to break a lease if the rent paid is higher than the market rental value (MRV) of similar properties. The authors also model vacancy duration stochastically. Finally, capital values and MRVs, assumed to be correlated, are simulated using specific stochastic processes. The authors derive the optimal holding period for the asset as the value that maximizes its discounted value. Findings - – The authors demonstrate that, consistent with existing capital markets literature and real estate business practice, break options in leases can dramatically alter optimal holding periods for real estate assets and, by extension, portfolios. The paper shows that, everything else being equal, shorter lease durations, higher MRV volatility, increasing negative rental reversion, higher vacancy duration, more break options, all tend to decrease the optimal holding period of a real estate asset. The converse is also true. Practical implications - – Practitioners are offered insights as well as a practical methodology for determining the ex-ante optimal holding period for an asset or a portfolio based on a number of market and asset-specific parameters including the lease structure. Originality/value - – The originality of the paper derives from its taking an explicit modelling approach to lease duration and lease breaks as additional sources of asset-specific risk alongside market risk. This is critical in real estate portfolio management because such specific risk is usually difficult to diversify.
R39|A Neurological Explanation of Strategic Mortgage Default|This study examines strategic mortgage default on a neurological level. Specifically, we test two mainstream behavioral finance/economic theories: sunk cost fallacy and cognitive dissonance. Using fMRI technology, we identify a number of substrates within the brain that provide a neurobiological explanation for why some homeowners exercise their mortgage put option while others do not. We find that borrowers rationally do not suffer from the sunk cost fallacy as it relates to strategic default in that they significantly prioritize their negative equity position over the amount of their initial down payment. We do, however, find neurological support that cognitive dissonance is relevant in homeowners’ thought processes as they toil with the hesitancy brought on by the believe that strategic default is immoral against the strong financial incentive to walk away from a substantially underwater mortgage. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
R39|Spatial Distribution of Disposal Sites¦ Empirical Evidence from Japan|This study is an empirical investigation of the location of industrial waste disposal sites in Japan. We found some evidence of spatial concentration of industrial waste disposal sites in area with other waste-related facilities. In addition, we found a higher number of industrial waste disposal sites per capita in municipalities that had not experienced conflict relating to the construction of disposal sites. Our results suggest that companies may decide to locate disposal sites in areas in which other waste related facilities already exist and/or where there is less citizen conflict over their construction. This would explain why there is a spatial concentration of unwanted facilities in some areas.
R39|Localisation as an Attribute of Competitiveness on the Economic Class Hotel Market|The article presents the results of the authors’ research into the influence of localisation factors on price behaviours (approval) of customers of economy class hotels in Wroclaw, with the identical purpose of stay. The factors affecting the price level of the hotel service were checked. A customer opinion poll with 43 premises was conducted. With the use of the factor analysis, substantial conditions were appointed. Out of seven formulated localisation premises (value attributes), three were included in the set of significant ones. Such preferences were affected by the tourist purpose of the stay. This purpose determines the preference of the localisation assessed according to the purpose of stay over standard localisation dimensions (distance from the station, airports, centre, roads). Creating competitiveness via localisation has solid bases but requires the examination of detailed conditions, which is shown in this article.
R39|Areas of Accommodation Services in Cracow in the Years 1992–2012 as Exemplified by the Former Cadastral Borough of Śródmieście|This article is aimed at evaluating the extent of land use conversions which took place in the recent 20-years’ period (1992–2012), viz. almost since the very beginning of the market-oriented economy in Poland, up to the present day, taking Cracow as an example, and particularly its oldest part–viz. Śródmieście, a former cadastral district functioning in the years 1867–1951. Tourist accommodation services were investigated– apart from culture and science - one of the few leading economy branches in the town’s spatial and business development.
R39|La planeación por escenarios aplicada sobre políticas urbanas: el caso del mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia)|Resumen El mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia), también conocido como Bazurto, es considerado actualmente como un foco de contaminación y caos urbano, siendo a su vez proveedor de recursos alimentarios para cerca del 80% de la población de la ciudad. Los problemas que aquejan a los habitantes del sector, parecen ser constantes en el tiempo; desde la creación de la primera gran plaza pública de la ciudad en 1904 (conocida como el mercado de Getsemaní), los iterados factores críticos (medio ambiente, economía y sociedad) han transcendido a convertirse en amenazas latentes. Este documento con la aplicación del método de planeación por escenario apoyado en un panel de expertos, visualiza futuros posibles (deseados y proyectados) para el mercado de Bazurto para un periodo de 15 años, en donde el traslado y la intervención, parecen ser las opciones más adecuadas para la solución de dichas problemáticas.
R39|La planeación por escenarios aplicada sobre políticas urbanas: el caso del mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia)|Resumen El mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia), también conocido como Bazurto, es considerado actualmente como un foco de contaminación y caos urbano, siendo a su vez proveedor de recursos alimentarios para cerca del 80% de la población de la ciudad. Los problemas que aquejan a los habitantes del sector, parecen ser constantes en el tiempo; desde la creación de la primera gran plaza pública de la ciudad en 1904 (conocida como el mercado de Getsemaní), los iterados factores críticos (medio ambiente, economía y sociedad) han transcendido a convertirse en amenazas latentes. Este documento con la aplicación del método de planeación por escenario apoyado en un panel de expertos, visualiza futuros posibles (deseados y proyectados) para el mercado de Bazurto para un periodo de 15 años, en donde el traslado y la intervención, parecen ser las opciones más adecuadas para la solución de dichas problemáticas.
R39|Discrimination in the rental market for apartments|Discrimination in the housing market may create large economic inefficiencies and unfair individual outcomes, but is very difficult to measure. To circumvent the problems with unobserved heterogeneity, most recent studies use the correspondence testing approach (i.e. sending fictitious inquiries to landlords). In this study, we generalize the existing methodology in order to facilitate a test of to what extent the measured degree of discrimination depends on applicant, landlord/apartment, and regional characteristics. To show how this more general methodology can be implemented, we investigate the effects of gender, ethnicity, age, and employment status in the Swedish rental market for apartments. Our results confirm the existence of widespread discrimination against some of the groups, but also show that the degree of discrimination varies substantially with landlord, apartment, and regional characteristics. This heterogeneity highlights the importance of using a broad approach when conducting correspondence studies. Our results also allow us to interpret the nature of discrimination and how it relates to segregation and geographical sorting.
R39|Hotelling Games on Networks: Efficiency of Equilibria|We consider a Hotelling game where a finite number of retailers choose a location, given that their potential customers are distributed on a network. Retailers do not compete on price but only on location, therefore each consumer shops at the closest store. We show that when the number of retailers is large enough, the game admits a pure Nash equilibrium and we construct it. We then compare the equilibrium cost bore by the consumers with the cost that could be achieved if the retailers followed the dictate of a benevolent planner. We perform this comparison in term of the induced price of anarchy, i.e., the ratio of the worst equilibrium cost and the optimal cost, and the induced price of stability, i.e., the ratio of the best equilibrium cost and the optimal cost. We show that, asymptotically in the number of retailers, these ratios are two and one, respectively
R39|An Empirical Test Of The Dominant Tax Externality In Sweden|We empirically reexamine the dominance of tax externalities in Sweden for the period of 2000 through 2011. Where hierarchical governments share a mobile tax base, a tax externality can arise not only horizontally across the same level of government but also vertically between different levels of government. A horizontal externality shifts tax rates toward a level that is too low, whereas a vertical externality pushes them toward a level that is too high. The net outcome of these competing effects is theoretically unclear within benevolent federal government systems. Brülhart and Jametti (2006) implemented a pioneering empirical test of the issue using Swiss data. Their empirical setting, however, assumes a single tax instrument, which contradicts the fiscal system in Switzerland. This inconsistency would theoretically distort their estimation. By contrast, our study investigates the pure dominance of tax externality in a sample of Swedish jurisdictions that can tax only personal income. We find a vertical externality to be relatively dominant.
R39|Adaptation of historical palaces into hotels in the Jelenia Góra Valley|The Valley of Palaces and Gardens in the Jelenia Góra Valley is an area of exceptional concentration of historical aristocratic residences in Poland. One third of twenty-seven existing palace complexes have been converted into hotels. Owing to their attractive location, amazing architecture, adjacent outbuildings and extensive parks, palaces can operate as hotels, offering leisure and cultural activities. The aim of the article was to present rationale and special features of historical palaces’ adaptation into hotels in the Jelenia Góra Valley.
R39|Seasonal front yard and back yard cafés in the spatial structure of Krakow (as exemplified by former 1st cadastre borough of Krakow City - Œródmieœcie)|The objective of this paper is defining changes of land use as consequence of the beginning of market economy rules implementation. These transformations involved, above all, a restoration of the land rent mechanism. An increase of the land prices, particularly in central city borough, contributed to its intensified use. To illustrate the above the catering and restaurant premises connected with the growth of touring as one of several functions underscored in the land use plan of Krakow’s economic functions have been taken as an example (besides, culture, science and specialist medical treatment). The research have been conducted in Œródmieœcie – former 1st cadastre borough of the city. It has confirmed the expansion of area occupied by catering and restaurant activity, especially during high season of tourist visits (spring-summer-autumn). At such times owners of catering and restaurant premises extensively used available space – arranging front/back yard cafés, particularly within the built-up area (mainly in back yards) as well as within streets area (pavements) and squares (primarily in The Main Market Square). The research was carried out during summer (July-September) 2013. It showed an almost threefold easonal increase of areas used as catering and restaurant premises.
R39|Hotelling Games on Networks: Efficiency of Equilibria|We consider a Hotelling game where a finite number of retailers choose a location, given that their potential customers are distributed on a network. Retailers do not compete on price but only on location, therefore each consumer shops at the closest store. We show that when the number of retailers is large enough, the game admits a pure Nash equilibrium and we construct it. We then compare the equilibrium cost bore by the consumers with the cost that could be achieved if the retailers followed the dictate of a benevolent planner. We perform this comparison in term of the induced price of anarchy, i.e., the ratio of the worst equilibrium cost and the optimal cost, and the induced price of stability, i.e., the ratio of the best equilibrium cost and the optimal cost. We show that, asymptotically in the number of retailers, these ratios are two and one, respectively.
R39|New Cellular Networks in Malawi: Correlates of Service Rollout and Network Performance|Cellular technologies have become increasingly important in the developing world; infrastructure for mobile networks has expanded dramatically over the past two decades giving access to remote areas without previous phone service. Despite this expansion, relatively little is known about the correlates of the rollout of cellular phone networks or the performance of these networks. Since the rollout of cellular networks has been largely spearheaded by an active private sector in telecommunications, how demand-side and cost-side factors affect the timing of rollout and quality of network service is of particular interest. In this paper we use new data to estimate the correlates of cellular phone access and network performance across rural areas of Malawi. We compile a dataset which combines administrative data of the entire cellular network of Malawi with geographic and Census data to describe the rollout and the performance of the cellular network measured by the dropped call rate. We find that both demand-side and cost-side factors are important in determining the timing of network access, while demand-side factors appear most relevant for the dropped call rate, one metric of network quality.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R39|Firm--worker matching in industrial clusters|In this paper we use a novel approach and a large Portuguese employer-employee panel data set to study the hypothesis that industrial agglomeration improves the quality of the firm-worker matching process. Our method makes use of recent developments in the estimation and analysis of models with high-dimensional fixed effects. Using wage regressions with controls for multiple sources of observed and unobserved heterogeneity we find little evidence that the quality of matching increases with firm’s clustering within the same industry. This result supports Freedman’s (2008) analysis using U.S. data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R39|Foreclosures in an Exurb: Multiple Empirical Analyses through a Prism|As the nation navigates through the stages of its foreclosure crisis, its journey brings with it negative outcomes that impact to the general real estate market. This paper combines two individual pieces and peruses a comprehensive illustration of the timeline of foreclosures and sheriff sales, and the effect they have on the single-family real estate market in Muskego, Wisconsin. This paper employs two econometric models to achieve its goal. First, we utilize a duration model that considers the time from a foreclosure’s filing until a sheriff sale or redemption. Our second model turns to a probit model, which attempts to predict whether a home is sheriff-sold or redeemed. Our results find that despite growing experience in dealing with foreclosures, lenders do not appear to have reduced the time from filing to sheriff sale. Finally, more expensive homes are less likely to be sheriff-sold following a foreclosure in relationship to other foreclosures.
R39|The Tourism Industry in Italy during the Great Recession (2008-12): What Data Show and Suggest|– The purpose of this article is to describe the evolution of the tourism industry in Italy during the recent years of the so-called ‘Great recession’ (2008-12). We highlight the most prominent features of the changes occurred in both the supply and the demand side, over these years. We describe the differences across different categories of accommodation structures, different kinds of destinations and different regions. The issue of “resilience” is used to explain the different degrees of success in responding to the national adverse shock hitting the industry. However, our interpretation is that deep structural changes in the demand and supply sides of the tourism industry, rather than specific resilient adjustments, have occurred in these years of recession.
R39|The Tourism Industry in Italy during the Great Recession (2008-12): What Data Show and Suggest|– The purpose of this article is to describe the evolution of the tourism industry in Italy during the recent years of the so-called ‘Great recession’ (2008-12). We highlight the most prominent features of the changes occurred in both the supply and the demand side, over these years. We describe the differences across different categories of accommodation structures, different kinds of destinations and different regions. The issue of “resilience” is used to explain the different degrees of success in responding to the national adverse shock hitting the industry. However, our interpretation is that deep structural changes in the demand and supply sides of the tourism industry, rather than specific resilient adjustments, have occurred in these years of recession.
R39|Endogenous Or Exogenous Innovation Development In Industry On Regional Level?|At the moment endogenous growth theory has become increasingly popular in the world of science, particularly in developed countries. This article aims to show, for two regions case, the needs and sense of applying this theory in the polish regions. Due to the low level of economic development of many Polish regions, they are unable to growth in a comparable rate as regions in developed countries. This explains the economic divergence between polish regions and the highly developed regions of Europe and the World. Stimulating economic growth is insufficient in such cases, because of the weakness of its internal factors. Therefore it is important to strengthen an external impact to keep internal development. It means that the endogenous growth theory is no reason to exist, in conditions of poor polish regions. Without external inputs there can’t be convergences processes. Therefore, the economic development of the Polish regions should be based on the exogenous growth theory.
R39|Flat Prices, Cell Phone Base Stations, and Network Structure|"The present paper analyses the effect of the distance to the nearest CPBS on listing prices of flats in the city of Nuremberg, and is related to a similar study of Brandt and Maennig (2012) in case of the city of Hamburg. Health effects of mobile phone radiation have been discussed vividly in the German public and there is still ongoing opposition against cell phone base stations (CPBS) in residential areas. Besides a negative health effect, a CBPS site is often perceived to be visually disruptive in a residential neighborhood. Therefore, a negative effect on property values due to the proximity to CBPS is expected. However, the empirical evidence is mixed and focused on rural areas (Bond 2007) while we consider an urban area. Furthermore, the endogeneity of CPBS locations and thus the identification of the effect is still an issue. The empirical approach applied here is based on a hedonic price function of housing prices. The hedonic regressions used to identify the effect of the distance to the nearest CPBS take account of housing and neighborhood characteristics but also a possible endogeneity of the variable of interest. Following the critique of Pinkse & Slade (2010) and Gibbons & Overman (2012) who advocate the use of the quasi-experimental approach, we develop an instrument for the estimation of local price effects of CPBS in an urban area. The instrument is derived from the spatial structure of the network and technical and regulatory requirements. Such a strategy could be also useful in other contexts in which location choice is endogenous but depends on an existing network structure. We find a significantly negative impact of nearby CPBS on flat prices. The discount amounts to 3.3% of a property's value when two similar flats at distances of 50 and 100 m to the nearest CPBS are compared. The effect size is comparable to findings of other studies. The results of the main OLS and IV specifications are robust to several modifications that include e.g. spatially lagged prices. The small difference between OLS and IV results suggests that the distance to the nearest CPBS is not endogenous, in opposition to Brandt & Maennig (2012). Both authors argue that CPBS are likely to be located on ""visually disruptive"" structures However, such structures are rare in city centres where the network is dense and distances to CPBS are smaller. Consequently, the endogeneity problem may be less relevant. Further theme: S_Y The Causal Impact of Infrastructure on Regional Economic Activity"
R39|Flat Prices, Cell Phone Base Stations, and Network Structure: An Instrumental Variable Approach to Endogenous Locations|Following the critique of Pinkse & Slade (2010) and Gibbons & Overman (2012), we develop an instrument for the estimation of local price effects of cell phone base stations (CPBS) in an urban area. The instrument is derived from the spatial structure of the network and technical and regulatory requirements. Such a strategy could be useful in other contexts in which location choice is endogenous but depends on an existing network structure. We find a significantly negative impact of nearby CPBS on flat prices. The discount amounts to 3.3% of a property s value when two similar flats at distances of 50 and 100 m to the nearest CPBS are compared. The small difference between OLS and IV results suggests that the distance to the nearest CPBS is not endogenous, in opposition to Brandt & Maennig (2012).
R39|Urbanization in India and Productivity of Manufacturing Industries: An Empirical Study|In this paper, we attempt to empirically analyse the impact of urbanization on the productivity of manufacturing industries in India. Our results from a panel of 15 industries across 13 states during the period 1981-2008 suggest that, there is variation in the effect of urbanization both within and across industries. The variation within an industry is observed across different time periods. As mentioned in literature, technology intensive and innovative industries seem to have benefitted more from the pattern of urbanization in the country.
R39|Influences of production and R&D agglomeration on productivity: Evidence from Chinese electronics firms|As China adopts a government-supported agglomeration model to develop high-tech industries, it is crucial to examine whether the spatial concentration of manufacturing and R&D activities enhance firm-level productivity. Based on a panel dataset of Chinese electronics firms from 2005 to 2007, the calculated Ellison–Glaeser (EG) index indicates that both production and R&D activities are highly spatially concentrated. Crucially, we find that production agglomeration has a positive relationship with firms' productivity, especially for smaller firms. In contrast, R&D agglomeration seems to negatively relate with productivity. It implies that the possible congestion effect and/or free rider problems erode the benefit derived from knowledge spillovers.
R39|Democracy and economic outcomes: Evidence from the superstars of modern art|This paper analyses the impact of the political environment on the value of artistic outcomes as measured by the price of paintings produced over the period from 1820 to 2007. The analysis is based on a unique dataset encompassing a global sample of 273 superstars of modern art born between 1800 and 1945, auction results of their paintings, and data on the political environment in the respective production countries. Controlling for a variety of economic and hedonic variables, there is a statistically significant, positive link between the level of democracy and the value of artistic output. Moreover, we find that democracy has a significant positive impact both on the density of superstar painters and the collective artistic human capital in a country.
R39|Competition in multiple characteristics: An empirical test of location equilibrium|With products differentiated in multiple dimensions, the location equilibrium for a duopolistic market exhibits maximum differentiation in one dimension and minimum differentiation in all the other dimensions. This paper analyses whether this equilibrium arises using real data for the Spanish movie theatre exhibition market where the firms (cinemas) are differentiated along two main dimensions (their geographical location and the set of movies exhibited). Data not only shows a trade-off, in that closer theatres tend to choose a higher proportion of different movies, but also that there is a tendency towards either max–min or min–max product differentiation.
R39|Where do foreign affiliates of Spanish multinational firms locate in developing and transition economies?|In this paper we examine how different host country characteristics affect the location decision of Spanish multinational firms in developing and transition countries, particular attention being paid to the sectoral composition of foreign direct investments (FDI). The estimation of a set of logit models allows us to consider different substitutability patterns among alternatives. The study focuses on a broad firm-level sample of 4,177 Spanish affiliates established in 52 countries over the period 1990 to 2010. The results suggest that Spanish FDI in developing and transition economies are driven by both market-seeking and efficiency-seeking factors. FDI is found to be positively related to the size of the market and negatively related to labor costs. The estimates also reveal that Spanish investment in developing and transition countries exhibit a pronounced agglomeration effect, although the intensity of these externalities depends on both the sort of activity and the nationality of competitors. Furthermore, our results show differences between manufactures and services in other local factors, such as human capital, macroeconomic instability, and financial risk, thereby confirming the idea that investors in each sector have different motivations for locating foreign affiliates in developing countries. The quality of infrastructures and institutions also appear to influence the location of FDI in these economies.
R39|A diósgyőri kohászat barnamezős területének fejlesztési lehetőségei|A diósgyőri kohászat léte már a trianoni békeszerződés határmegvonásával megpecsételődött. A telepítés okai megszűntek, a gyár működése a kialakult geopolitikai és geográfiai viszonyok között hosszú távon nem volt fenntartható. A gyár gazdasági válságát a háborús időszak, majd a szovjet irányítás fedte el. Amint ezen tényezők megszűntek, a válság kezelhetetlenné vált. A nem megfelelő, és nem kellő mértékben alkalmazott válságkezelési technikák a kötelezően társuló társadalmi feszültségeket felerősítették, a környezetben is nyomot hagyva így egy társadalmilag és gazdaságilag meghatározóan deprivált területet jött létre. A diósgyőri kohászat 150 éves története koncentráltan jeleníti meg azokat a problémákat, amellyel ma a fejlesztő, válságkezelő településeknek, intézményeknek és a helyi társadalomnak szembe kell nézniük. A tanulmány arra tesz kísérletet, hogy megmutassa azokat a folyamatokat, amelyeken változtatva a fejlesztés pozitív irányba fordítható és bemutassa, hogy a megmaradt, rekultiválásra váró területet hogyan lehetne a ma szolgálatába állítani, és a jövőre nézve elfogadható alternatívát kialakítani.
R39|The development of commercial property prices and values analysis|Presented paper provides a general overview of the commercial real estate market analysis both internationally and locally, aiming to emphasize the importance of coherent market analysis and indicators in today’s international investment market. Unfortunately, the commercial real estate market lacks coherent information and limits market transparency. The availability of data enables to suggest a certain market division, varying from undeveloped non-transparent markets through developed markets with limited market data to highly transparent developed markets with price indexes. The responsibility for the task of developing market analysis of the commercial real estate sector was assumed by the private sector incl. IPD databank, research departments in big consultancies and finally CoStar and Real Capital Analytics taking over a leading role in commercial property data analysis. From the beginning of XXI century interest of market analysis shifted from pure price monitoring into researching wider market sentiments. New data products have emerged not only on the wave of a developing information economy, but also as an answer to the post-crisis global real estate reality. However, in the circumstances of lack of market indicators coupled with market uncertainty, local consultants such as valuers have to resort to various forms of benchmarking their results, including reinstatement costs or land-to-capital ratios.
R39|Is There Evidence of a Real Estate Collateral Channel Effect on Listed Firm Investment in China?|Previous research on the United States and Japan finds economically large impacts of changing real estate collateral value on firm investment. Working with unique data on land values in 35 major Chinese markets and a panel of firms outside the real estate industry, we estimate investment equations that yield no evidence of a collateral channel effect. One reason for this stark difference appears to be that some of the most dominant firms in China are state-owned enterprises (SOEs) which are unconstrained in the sense that they do not need to rely on rising underlying property collateral values to obtain all the financing necessary to carry out their desired investment programs. However, we also find no collateral channel effect for non-SOEs when we perform our analysis on disaggregated sets of firms. Norms and regulation in the Chinese capital markets and banking sector can account for why there is no collateral channel effect operating among these firms. We caution that our results do not mean that there will be no negative fallout from a potential real estate bust on the Chinese economy. There are good reasons to believe there would be, just not through a standard collateral channel effect on firm investment.
R39|Search for a Common Factor in Public and Private Real Estate Returns|"This paper is no longer available on-line from the NBER. A revised version of the paper has been published as ""Searching for a Common Factor in Public and Private Real Estate Returns"" in the Journal of Portfolio Management JPM RE 2013, Vol. 39, No. 5: pp. 120-133."
R39|A Solar-Home Rental Business Model: Capturing Synergies from Solar Energy and Single Family Rental Properties|Abstract. The credit market collapse and housing-led economic recession beginning in 2007-2008 have resulted in several million distressed homes in the U.S. that are in various stages of delinquency, default, and foreclosure. Over the past three to four years, a number of private equity investment pools have been buying large blocks of distressed residential properties at auction, in short sales, and otherwise, with the intention of renovating and renting them at attractive yields, and ultimately, profiting from their sale as prices rebound from recessionary levels. In the process, they are institutionalizing single family rental property management on an unprecedented state and regional scale. Market demographics and persistently tight credit conditions portend several years of sustained growth in both the demand for rentals and rental rates. Simultaneously, the installed cost of solar photovoltaic (PV) systems has declined over 50% in just the last three years. Among the major catalysts of the decline have been a glut of manufacturing capacity that was built in response to pre-recession demand; federal and state financial incentives including tax credits, rebates, and performance-based payments; and gradual gains from competition and efficiencies in balance-of-system costs. Together, these two trends offer the prospect of an integrated “solar-rental” investment strategy that will produce compelling returns while significantly boosting residential solar energy use. This paper encompasses three objectives: (1) to establish a framework for a solar-home rental business model in which rental incomes are enhanced via the sale of rooftop-generated solar electricity to the tenants of single-family properties; (2) to address several of the major operational elements of such a business, including installation and maintenance of the solar energy system, tenant billing, and management of the solar operation; and (3) to model the economics of the individual solar and rental operations, and the combined enterprise, in a number of markets, in order to identify those where the solar-rental strategy would produce attractive returns relative to the rental-only approach. Thirteen cases in twelve state markets were evaluated for their solar-home rental economics. All the markets have experienced high rates of distressed single family properties since the recession and they account for the majority of institutional “REO-to-rental” purchases. Of the case studies, five produced after-tax returns exceeding 7.50%, matching or exceeding standalone rental yields by up to 0.19%, and over 0.40% under an expected scenario of further cost declines. As a group, these markets are characterized by high marginal electricity rates, moderate to high solar insolation, and modest to significant upfront or performance-based incentives. It is estimated that the top institutional buyers have accumulated 40,000-50,000 distressed properties since 2009 and that they are expected to purchase upwards of 100,000 additional homes over the next two years. In comparison, the national single family rental market is estimated at 16 million homes, 2 million of which were added since 2006, while the number of U.S. residences with solar panels stood at approximately 300,000 as of the end of 2012. If half of the expected portfolio of institutional single family rentals was to be solarized, it would result in a 25% increase in the stock of residential solar installations, via the “leveraging” of actions by perhaps a dozen property buyers. As solar panel prices and, especially, balance-of-system installation costs continue to decline in the face of rising electricity rates, solar energy-rentals should prove an attractive proposition to residential rental property investors and a big assist to the country’s renewable energy usage.
R39|Identification of Building and Locational Characteristics’ Ranking for Purpose-built Offices in Malaysia: A Delphi Methodology|Building and locational characteristics of purpose-built office (PBO) can be found in any office building assessment. These characteristics consist of physical and non-physical elements depending on types of building assessment. Identifying the attributes or characteristics of PBO is fundamental in developing tools to evaluate the quality level of PBOs in any building assessment. In Malaysia, there are many building assessments unveiled by government and private sectors. However, the structured framework for both building and locational characteristics of PBO is still unclear. This paper is propose to identify the building and locational characteristics of PBO in a comprehensive manner and rank these characteristics by applying the Delphi method. The application of this method provides insights into aspects of this method in the context of property research.
R39|On the Predictive Content of Leading Indicators: The Case of U.S. Real Estate Markets|This paper employs a probit and a Markov switching model using information from the Conference Board Leading Indicator and other predictor variables to forecast the signs of future rental growth in four key U.S. commercial rent series. We find that both approaches have considerable power to predict changes in the direction of commercial rents up to two years ahead, exhibiting strong improvements over a naÃ¯ve model, especially for the warehouse and apartment sectors. We find that while the Markov switching model appears to be more successful, it lags behind actual turnarounds in market outcomes whereas the probit is able to detect whether rental growth will be positive or negative several quarters ahead.
R39|A Holistic Approach to Developing Existing Building Commissioning in European Public Real Estate|Recently, the global market is struggling with one of the most critical economic crisis to have ever occurred. The solution is to attack the weak chain links effectively, focusing on specific targets rather than use capitals thoughtlessly. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce and follow more effective methodologies in each field of application, towards a general effort to move out of the crisis. In this paper, the authors analyse the field of Facility Management, in particular the improvement of buildings conditions and performance through Building Commissioning, to provide proof of its concepts effectiveness, presenting a new way of application.
R39|Estimation of house prices in regions with small sample sizes|House price indexes had become important economic indicators worldwide, since movements in house prices have been closely correlated with the economic cycle. In order to compute these kind of indexes it is imperative to produce reliable estimates of the average transaction price of houses, not only at the macrolevel (e.g. national and state level), but also at the microlevel (e.g. district, municipalities or further disaggregate regional level). In Portugal, there is a rapidly growing demand of such microlevel statistics since the beginning of the recent financial and economic crisis. The Portuguese Statistical Office provides a range of invaluable data at national level; however, this data cannot be used directly to produce reliable regional-level estimates due to small sample sizes. In this paper we employ small area estimation techniques to produce design and model-based estimates of average transaction price of houses for Portuguese regions with small sample sizes. Our results show that the model-based estimates based on spatial and temporal models are more accurate than the traditional direct design-based estimates. The use of these techniques allows the production of information at disaggregated regional levels that would not be available under the traditional direct estimation approaches. Furthermore, it is even possible to produce reliable model-based estimates for geographical areas without sample. The estimates are expected to provide invaluable information to policy-analysts and decision-making. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
R39|Does travel inspire? Evidence from the superstars of modern art|This paper investigates whether travel increases the value of paintings produced by modern visual artists. The analysis is based on the 214 most prominent modern visual artists born between 1850 and 1945 and auction records of their paintings over the past 20 years. We find that artworks produced in the year of a journey are 7% more valuable than paintings produced in periods with no travel. We attribute this effect to human capital investments, knowledge spillovers and inspiration from the travel destination itself. There are persistent, but declining benefits to travel over the subsequent 4 years. The analysis shows that the impact of travel is smaller for later periods as modern art becomes more abstract. The effect on the value of paintings differs depending on the purpose of a journey: work-related, recreational and politically motivated journeys have a positive contemporaneous effect on value, whereas educational journeys have a negative effect. In addition, we find that France, Germany and the United States are the most frequently visited destinations for modern artists and also yield considerable benefits during times of strong innovation. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
R39|Optimal product variety in a Hotelling model|Consider the Hotelling linear spatial duopoly with firm uncertainty over the consumer mean. As uncertainty about the mean grows relative to the dispersion of consumers, competitive locations become socially optimal. A limit result for discontinuous, log-concave densities is also established.
R39|Do Reported Attitudes towards Immigrants Predict Ethnic Discrimination?|Reported attitudes towards immigrants are sometimes used as a proxy for ethnic discrimination. However, there is little empirical evidence of a link between attitudes and discrimination. In this paper, we use survey data on people’s attitudes towards immigrants combined with data on ethnic discrimination from a field experiment in the Swedish housing market to re-examine this issue. We find clear evidence of a link between reported attitudes towards immigrants and the extent of ethnic discrimination at the municipality level. Thus, in contrast to most prior studies, our results suggest that reported attitudes may be a useful proxy for ethnic discrimination.
R39|CGE Analysis of Transportation Cost and Regional Economy: East Asia and Northern Kyushu|This study develops a multi-region computable general equilibrium model (CGE model), which analyzes the influence on a regional economy of a reduction in the transportation cost. The reduction in transportation cost is, in a word, reduction of the logistics cost. Logistic competition has accelerated with recent economic development. The Northern Kyushu region, which is the focal region of this study, is located near East Asian countries, including China and South Korea, but this area has fallen behind in the logistic competition. Therefore, immediate countermeasures are needed. This study analyzes the economic effect on the Northern Kyushu region and on surrounding regions of the cost reduction caused by the logistic policy of the Northern Kyushu region. To achieve this purpose, several assumptions were made in the CGE model. First, the study analyzes 10 regions, namely Fukuoka City, Kitakyushu City, the rest of Fukuoka Prefecture, and Yamaguchi Prefecture (the northern Kyushu area consists of these regions), the rest of Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan, ASEAN countries, and the USA. Second, in the production system, the transportation industry engenders transportation costs and these are added to the price of the commodity. Third, increasing returns to scale which Fujita et al. (1999) suggest was utilized for the manufacturing industry. Fourth, the number of firms belonging to industries with increasing returns was calculated endogenously based on the above assumption. As a result, the logistic improvement will be shown to have had an economic effect, including an increase in the number of firms in the Northern Kyushu region.
R39|The Buildings Of The Elderly As Supplemental Retirement Pensions,El Patrimonio Inmobiliario De Los Mayores Como Complemento Al Sistema De Pensiones|The Spanish pension system, contributory, public and shared is under severe strain due to a growing aging population that will produce a large elderly population, a smaller pension plan and a significant investment in housing. The authors believe this may create a new social class, with high risk of exclusion, made up of these elderly cash poor but house rich individuals. We present a demographic study of population, cash flow and heritage of this aging population. The work shows tools to turn their real estate into cash.
R39|Accounting For Neighboring Effects In Measures Of Spatial Concentration|A common problem with spatial economic concentration measures (e.g. Gini, Herfindhal, entropy and Ellison-Glaeser indices) is accounting for the position of regions in space. While they purport to measure spatial clustering, these statistics are confined to calculations within individual areal units. They are insensitive to the proximity of regions - to neighboring effects. Clearly, economic clusters may cross the boundaries of the regions. Yet with current measures, any industrial agglomeration that traverses boundaries will be chopped into two or more pieces. Activity in adjacent spatial units is treated in exactly the same way as activity in far-flung, non-adjacent areas. This paper shows how some popular measures of spatial concentration relying on areal data can be modified to account for neighboring effects and spatial autocorrelation. With a U.S. application, we also show that the new instruments we propose are useful and easy to implement.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R39|Institutions, organizations and space: forms of proximity (In French)|Opposing heterogeneous agents, imposing choices, and making divergent interests compatible, are all political prerequisites for agent coordination. Although these political prerequisites are not entirely ignored in proximity literature, such literature does tend to insist, for the most part, on cognitive perspective: the biggest beneficial effect of proximity is that of facilitating knowledge-sharing between agents. The principal objective of this paper is to propose both political and cognitive conceptions of proximity. In order to do so, we use the concept of institution, to examine the relations between these concepts - proximity and institution. We obtain one principal result: proximity is an institutional fact, which itself divides up two sub-categories, organizational and geographical proximity. Organizational proximity refers to the cognitive and political coordination of agents. Geographical proximity between actors is a latent resource. This resource would only be activated if the agents share organizational proximity. This form of proximity means that actors integrate cognitive community, i.e. reach memory of organization made up of rules and routines, and integrate political community, i.e. take place in power structure.
R39|Do universities affect firms’ location decisions? Evidence from Spain|Human capital, scientific research, and technology are the three chief mechanisms promoting knowledge spillovers from universities to firms. Based on a study of the impact of Spain’s 1983 University Reform Act (LRU), which opened the door to the foundation of new universities and faculties, this paper examines whether university (or faculty) location affects the creation of new firms within a given province. We conclude that the foundation of science and social science faculties has had a marked impact on the creation of firms.
R39|A model based on the Rybczynski equation for Portugal|"We built a model analyzing the importance which the natural advantages and local resources are in the manufacturing industry location, in relation with the ""spillovers"" effects and industrial policies. To this, we estimate the Rybczynski equation matrix for the various manufacturing industries in Portugal, at regional level (NUTS II) and for the period 1986 to 1994. As a summary conclusion, noted that the location of manufacturing in Portugal is still mostly explained by specific factors, with a tendency to increase in some cases the explanation by these factors, having the effect ""spillovers"" and industrial policies little importance in this context."
R39|A model based on the Rybczynski equation for Portugal. Another way|"We built a model analyzing the importance which the natural advantages and local resources are in the manufacturing industry location, in relation with the ""spillovers"" effects and industrial policies. To this, we estimate the Rybczynski equation matrix for the various manufacturing industries in Portugal, at regional level (NUTS II) and for the period 1995 to 1999. As a summary conclusion, noted that the location of manufacturing in Portugal is still mostly explained by specific factors, with a tendency to increase in some cases the explanation by these factors, having the effect ""spillovers"" and industrial policies little importance in this context."
R39|Geographic Concentration of Business Services Firms: A Poisson Sorting Model|This paper estimates a heterogeneous sorting model for firms, employing a semiparametric Poisson approach. We show that there is an equivalence relation between a locally weighted Logit and Poisson model. We apply our model to estimate firm-specific preferences of business services firms for location attributes such as diversity of economic activities and specialisation of business services. We correct for endogeneity of our specialisation measure by means of a control function approach, using instruments external as well as internal to the model. We find that business services firms have a relatively strong preference for specialised clusters of business services firms, conditional on density of economic activity. A standard deviation increase in business services specialisation of a location leads to a 40 percent increase in the probability that a business services firm locates there, supporting theories of Marshall, Arrow and Romer. Business services firms also have a preference to locate near a group of firms that belong to the same sector, not necessarily business services firms, so diversity is negatively related to location decisions. Interestingly, firms rely either on within-sector interactions (specialisation) or between-sector interactions (diversity).
R39|Geographic Concentration of Business Services Firms: A Poisson Sorting Model|This paper examines the effects of specialisation (within-sector clustering) and diversity (between-sector clustering) on business services profitability and location choice. We apply a semiparametric Poisson sorting model allowing for firm-specific effects. We find that for most firms, profitability of business services firms is substantially higher close to specialised clusters of business services firms. A standard deviation increase in business services specialisation leads to on average a 40 percent increase in the probability that a business services firm locates there, supporting theories of Marshall, Arrow and Romer. It is also profitable for most business services firms to locate near a group of firms that belong to the same sector, not necessarily business services firms, so diversity is negatively related to location decisions. Almost all firms either benefit from within-sector clustering or between-sector clustering. Within-sector clusters are particularly profitable for large mature firms, whereas between-sector clusters are relatively more profitable for smaller innovative firms.
R39|Network and border effects: Where do foreign multinationals locate in Germany?|This study assesses the determinants of location choices of foreign multinational firms at the level of German federal states. Adjacency and existing firm networks are assumed to influence the investors' profits in a given location by overcoming informational disadvantages when entering the new market. A nested logit model resembles the structure of the location choice process well, since it allows foreign investors to have differing perceptions about the substitutability among East and West German federal states. By using affiliate-level data between 1997 and 2005, the results confirm that firms react positively to local demand, a common border and existing firm networks, while unit labor costs exhibit the expected negative impact. In the sectoral estimations, it is shown that these effects vary in their relevance across manufacturing and service affiliates, and between upstream and downstream activities and that intersectoral linkages play an important role.
R39|Vertical disintegration in Marshallian industrial districts|This paper uses a novel approach and detailed plant-level Portuguese data to reexamine the Marshallian hypothesis that specialization and the vertical disintegration of firms should be greater in areas where an industry concentrates. Our measure of firm specialization and vertical disintegration employs a Herfindhal index constructed with occupational shares for all workers within the firm. Controlling for firm size and sector of activity, we find that vertical disintegration is higher in areas where industries agglomerate. Sensitivity tests reveal that this positive relation is remarkably robust across different specifications.
R39|'Housing Without Housing' en Marruecos|"This tale of a ""voyage"" expects to bring closer an international co-operation experience in Morocco, in the field of neighborhoods whole enhancing, by generating knowledge for habitat related project assessment. This attempts to pull down the strongest ""basic"" principles, the deepest rooted ""logics"", the proudest ""rationality"". The initial hypothesis is placed upon the idea that only the own history and identity deconstruction can be used to the satisfactory meeting and international cooperation; only a person or nation ready to self deconstruction in order to make sens of one's pieces and situation, can perform a meeting in diversity and fariness."
R39|Urbanismo y Clases en la ciudad de Cádiz. Cambios recientes|The city of Cadiz is a good case to illustrate the way geographical placement and geological becoming can determine social space distribution within the city. Due to its religious vocation and its bourgeois and bureaucratic tradition, this city has a very remarkable social class factor. This is not only present in urban design, but also in the architectonic one.
R39|Trajectories in Physical Space out of Communications in Acquaintance Space: An Agent-Based Model of a Textile Industrial District|This article presents an agent-based model of an Italian textile district where thousands of small firms specialize in particular phases of fabrics production. It is an empirical and methodological model that reconstructs the communications between firms when they arrange production chains. In their turn, production chains reflect into road traffic in the geographical areas where the district extends. The reconstructed traffic exhibits a pattern that has been observed, but not foreseen, by policy makers.
R39|Accès à la formation continue en entreprise et caractéristiques des marchés locaux du travail|[fre] Tous les salariés n’ont pas les mêmes chances d’accéder . à la formation continue financée par leur entreprise. . Le salarié pour qui cette probabilité est la plus élevée n’est novice ni dans son poste ni sur le marché du travail, occupe un emploi de cadre ou une profession intermédiaire dans une grande entreprise (plus de 500 salariés) de service ou du secteur industriel à haut niveau technologique. Ce salarié a plus d’une chance . sur deux d’avoir suivi une formation financée par son . entreprise au cours de l’année précédente, alors que la moyenne est plus proche d’une chance sur quatre. Une fois contrôlées ces caractéristiques du salarié et de l’entreprise, il reste des différences spatiales d’accès à la formation continue: la probabilité d’accès diminue lorsque la densité des marchés locaux du travail (mesurée à l’échelle de la zone d’emploi) augmente. Les meilleurs appariements employé-poste et le turnover plus élevé sur les marchés denses seraient déterminants pour expliquer le moindre recours à la formation continue dans ces espaces. Le rôle négatif de la densité concernerait uniquement les salariés des entreprises urbaines et l’accès à formation continue serait moins fréquent pour les salariés des . firmes rurales que pour ceux des firmes urbaines. [ger] Nicht alle Arbeitnehmer haben die gleichen Chancen auf . eine von ihrem Unternehmen finanzierte Fortbildung. . Der Arbeitnehmer mit den größten Chancen ist weder neu auf seinem Posten noch auf dem Arbeitsmarkt, hat eine Stellung als Führungskraft oder einen intermediären Beruf in einem großen Unternehmen (über 500 Beschäftigte) der Dienstleistungs-oder Hochtechnologieindustriebranche. Dieser Arbeitnehmer hat eine fünfzigprozentige Chance, im Verlauf des letzten Jahres eine von seiner Firma bezahlte Fortbildung durchgeführt zu haben, während der Durchschnitt eher bei einer fünfundzwanzigprozentigen Chance liegt. Nach der Kontrolle dieser Eigenschaften des Arbeitnehmers und der Firma verbleiben räumliche Unterschiede beim Zugang zur Fortbildung: Die Wahrscheinlichkeit dieses Zugangs reduziert sich bei steigender Dichte der lokalen Arbeitsmärkte (gemessen auf der Ebene der Arbeitszone). Die besseren Paarbildungen Arbeitnehmer/ Posten und die größere Fluktuation auf dichten Märkten sollen ausschlaggebend sein, um die geringere Beanspruchung der Weiterbildung in diesen Räumen zu erklären. Die negative Rolle der Dichte soll dabei nur die Arbeitnehmer der städtischen Unternehmen betreffen und der Zugang zur Fortbildung wäre geringer für die Arbeitnehmer in den ländlichen als in den städtischen Firmen. [spa] No todos los asalariados tienen las mismas probabilidades . de acceso a la formación continua financiada por . su empresa. El asalariado para quien esta probabilidad es más elevada no es novato ni en su puesto de trabajo . ni en el mercado de trabajo; ocupa un puesto directivo . o es un cuadro intermedio en una gran empresa (más de 500 asalariados) de los servicios o del sector industrial con un alto nivel tecnológico. Este asalariado tiene más de una probabilidad sobre dos de haber seguido . una formación financiada por su empresa en el transcurso . del año anterior, mientras que la media está más cerca de una probabilidad sobre cuatro. Una vez determinadas estas características del asalariado de la empresa, quedan diferencias espaciales de acceso a la formación continua: la probabilidad de acceso disminuye cuando aumenta la densidad de los mercados locales de trabajo (medida en la escala de la zona de empleo). Los mejores emparejamientos empleado-puesto de trabajo y la renovación más elevada en los mercados densos serían determinantes para explicar el menor recurso a la formación continua en dichos espacios. El papel negativo de la densidad afectaría únicamente a los asalariados de las empresas urbanas y el acceso a la formación continua sería menos frecuente para los asalariados de las empresas rurales que para los de las empresas urbanas. [eng] Not all workers are equally likely to access continuingeducation programs funded by their employers. The employees with the greatest chances of doing so are neither beginners in their jobs nor newcomers to the . labour market; they hold managerial or intermediate white-collar positions in large firms (more than 500 . employees) in the service sector or high-tech industrial sector. Such employees have more than one chance in two of having attended an employer-funded training program in the previous year, compared with an average closer to one chance in four. After examining these characteristics of the employee . and the firm, we are left with spatial differences in access to continuing education: the probability of access decreases when the density of local labour markets (measured at employment-area level) increases. The better employee/ job matches and the higher turnover in dense markets seem to be decisive in explaining the lesser reliance on continuing education in these geographic areas. . . Our findings suggest that (1) the negative role of density only affects employees in urban firms and (2) employees in rural firms are less likely to access continuing education than their urban-firm counterparts.
R39|“Signal-jamming” leads to “minimum differentiation” under demand uncertainty|No abstract is available for this item.
R39|Management of technical and organisational interactions by proximity: the hub firms in aeronautical sector (In French)|One of the features of the model of organization which is gradually set up in the aeronautical activity is, for the airframe manufacturers, the passage of a statute of “aeronautical manufacturer” to “of architect-integrator of aeronautical systems”. The emergence of this model is not without consequences on the nature and the contents of the relations inter-firms, particularly the organization of the supply chain. One of the principal characteristics of this organization is the emergence and the development of new actors - the hub firms - as an ad hoc organisational form of management of the technical and organisational interactions between the architect-integrators and the other firms which take part in the production of the planes. In particular, this organisational form uses a temporary geographical proximity, taking the form of physical plateau facilitating the interactions in face to face.
R39|Management of technical and organisational interactions by proximity: the hub firms in aeronautical sector (In French)|One of the features of the model of organization which is gradually set up in the aeronautical activity is, for the airframe manufacturers, the passage of a statute of “aeronautical manufacturer” to “of architect-integrator of aeronautical systems”. The emergence of this model is not without consequences on the nature and the contents of the relations inter-firms, particularly the organization of the supply chain. One of the principal characteristics of this organization is the emergence and the development of new actors - the hub firms - as an ad hoc organisational form of management of the technical and organisational interactions between the architect-integrators and the other firms which take part in the production of the planes. In particular, this organisational form uses a temporary geographical proximity, taking the form of physical plateau facilitating the interactions in face to face.
R39|Localización empresarial en Aragón: una aplicación empírica de la ayuda a la decisión multicriterio tipo ELECTRE I y III. Robustez de los resultados obtenidos = Industrial Location Decisions in Aragon: an Empirical Application of a Multi-criterion Methodology of Aid to the Decision using ELECTRE Methods I and III. Robustness of the Obtained Results|La decisión de la localización es una de las opciones estratégicas más importantes que tienen que tomar las empresas, con influencia directa sobre su competitividad. Por este motivo, se han desarrollado numerosas metodologías que ayudan en la toma de estas decisiones. En este trabajo, se realiza una aplicación empírica de una metodología de ayuda a la decisión multicriterio; específicamente, se ha optado por el método ELECTRE en sus versiones I y III, con el fin de seleccionar el mejor emplazamiento para una empresa. Para esta aplicación, se utilizan como alternativas de localización las Comarcas de Aragón, como factores de localización se utilizan 8 criterios y como peso o importancia de esos factores los obtenidos mediante una encuesta. Además, se aporta evidencia sobre la consistencia de los resultados obtenidos. Como se aprecia en el trabajo, aunque la tipología de los problemas a los que van destinados ambos métodos son distintos, los resultados obtenidos pueden ser considerados como consistentes. = The location decision is one of the most important strategic decisions that have to take the firms, with direct influence on their competitiveness. For this reason, many methodologies have been developed to help in the decision making. In this paper, we make an empirical application of a multi-criterion methodology of aid to the decision; specifically, ELECTRE method has been chosen in its versions I and III, in order to select the best place for a firm. The alternatives are counties in Aragon (Spain), and we use eight criteria. The weight has been obtained by surveys. In addition, evidence is contributed about the consistency of the obtained results. Though the typology of the problems to which both methods are destined are different, the obtained results can be considered consistent.
R39|Economies of Scale in Production versus Diseconomies in Transportation: On Structural Change in the German Dairy Industry|This paper analyzes the structural change in the German dairy sector using a sector-wide optimization model. In particular, the model includes a spatially explicit representation of dairy processing farms and dairy farming regions to account for the trade-off between economies of scale in dairy production and diseconomies of scale in transportation. We simulate cost-optimal sectoral structures for different time horizons and various transport cost levels. The results demonstrate that the model is able to explain the trend towards fewer but larger dairies as currently observed in reality and indicate, ceteris paribus, a continuation of this trend. However, if the importance of transport costs increases relative to other costs in dairy production this trend might level off. The structural impacts found differ markedly by region.
R39|Winners and Losers: Spatial variations in labour productivity in England and Wales|This paper presents an investigation into the static and dynamic spatial pattern of aggregate labour productivity across England and Wales at the district and unit authority level. This analysis is complemented by plant-level regressions to identify the contribution of industrial sectors to each NUTS1 region’s average labour productivity. Using data for 1998 and 2005, our exploratory data analysis illustrates that there are stable spatial patterns in levels of labour productivity and that labour productivity change does not appear to be spatially dependent, at least not at this spatial scale. Furthermore the economic importance of different sectors to different regions evolves over time, which makes regional industrial policy formation problematic.
R39|Microeconomic foundations of geographical variations in labour productivity|This paper initially presents an exploratory spatial data analysis which indicates the presence of small-scale geographical variations in levels and standard deviations of labour productivity across England and Wales in 2005. We identify the presence of spatial autocorrelation for both measures. This finding motivates a subsequent review and extension of theories which suggest the possible presence of small-scale geographical patterns of labour productivity.
R39|Uncertainty in Spatial Duopoly with Possibly Asymmetric Distributions: a State Space Approach|In spatial competition firms are likely to be uncertain about consumer locations when launching products either because of shifting demograph- ics or of asymmetric information about preferences. Realistically distri- butions of consumer locations should be allowed to vary over states and need not be uniform. However, the existing literature models location uncertainty as an additive shock to a uniform consumer distribution. The additive shock restricts uncertainty to the mean of the consumers loca- tions. We generalize this approach to a state space model in which a vector of parameters gives rise to different distributions of consumer tastes in dif- ferent states, allowing other moments (besides the mean) of the consumer distribution to be uncertain. We illustrate our model with an asymmetric consumer distribution and obtain a unique subgame perfect equilibrium with an explicit, closed-form solution. An equilibrium existence result is then given for the general case. For symmetric distributions, the unique subgame perfect equilibrium in the general case can be described by a simple closed-form solution.
R39|R&D Partnerships and Capability of Innovation of Small and Medium-Sized Firms in Zhongguancun, Beijing: The Power of Proximity|We examine the impact of research partnerships on a firm's own R&D capability along with the context of the importance of geographical proximity using original survey data obtained from small and medium-sized firms in Zhongguancun Science Park (ZSP). This study develops an analytical framework related to the impact of research partnerships on a firm's R&D capability. Results show that research cooperation with universities and research institutes and small and medium-sized firms enhances the R&D capability of individual firms when the partners are located nearby, although distance has no significant effect on cooperation with large firms.
R39|Rivalry and Learning Among Clustered and Isolated Firms|In this paper explore the relationships between rivalry and geographical proximity at the very level of contacts between individual firms. In particular, we wish to highlight the influence of geographical proximity on rival identification, on the comparison of their knowledge, and on the consequent elaboration of a strategy. In order to reproduce the interactions between firms, we made use of an agent-based model (ABM) where the strategic choices of rival firms are derived from general assumptions on competitive behavior and learning processes. Aim of the model is to investigate the co-evolution of firms' knowledge, strategies and performances. Substantial empirical evidences claim that firms located in geographical clusters are more likely to learn and innovate than isolated firms.
R39|EADS, an unfinished transition. An understanding by the Economy of proximity (In French)|"Aeronautical group European EADS had many difficulties in 2006. The analyses converge to a \""problem of governance\"". This report is not enough. We propose two complementary explanations: these difficulties of governance result from a too long distance, at the same time of a geographical and relational nature. We use the conceptual framework of the Economy of Proximity, which proposes a definition of the proximity with spatial and non spatial dimensions, to develop our argumentation. With geographical proximity, we distinguish institutional proximity and organisational proximity. First is understood as a relational availability, second as conforming and sharing institutions, third as a particular form of the preceding one which articulates political coordination and cognitive coordination."
R39|EADS, an unfinished transition. An understanding by the Economy of proximity (In French)|"Aeronautical group European EADS had many difficulties in 2006. The analyses converge to a \""problem of governance\"". This report is not enough. We propose two complementary explanations: these difficulties of governance result from a too long distance, at the same time of a geographical and relational nature. We use the conceptual framework of the Economy of Proximity, which proposes a definition of the proximity with spatial and non spatial dimensions, to develop our argumentation. With geographical proximity, we distinguish institutional proximity and organisational proximity. First is understood as a relational availability, second as conforming and sharing institutions, third as a particular form of the preceding one which articulates political coordination and cognitive coordination."
R39|Disentangling the R+D shortfall of the EU vis-a-vis the US|This paper investigates the causes of the shortfall in private R+D expenditure of the EU compared to the US. It shows that differences in the structure of the two economies play only a minor role in explaining the R+D gap. Instead, the European R+D shortfall is mainly caused by a negative intrinsic effect, meaning that companies within European industries spend less on R+D than their US peers in the same sectors. In addition, this negative intrinsic effect is mainly due to institutional differences between the US and the EU15. Government funding of R+D and the internationalization of R+D provide significant explanation as well.
R39|Localization Economies and Establishment Scale: A Dartboard Approach|This paper reexamines the relationship between geographic concentration of an industry (localization) and establishment scale. We use an approach that builds on Ellison & Glaeser’s (1997) dartboard location model to measure localization. Contrary to Holmes & Stevens’s (2002) pioneering analysis based on employment location quotients, but in line with the predictions that follow from Alfred Marshall’s concept of localization economies, we find evidence that plants located in areas where an industry exhibits concentration in excess are smaller than plants in the same industry outside such areas.
R39|Spatial Equilibrium in a State Space Approach to Demand Uncertainty|Firms are likely to be uncertain about consumer preferences when launching products. The existing literature models preference uncertainty as an additive shock to the consumer distribution in a characteristic space model. The additive shock only shifts the mean of the consumers' ideal points. We generalize this approach to a state space model in which a vector of parameters can give rise to di erent distributions of consumer tastes in di erent states, allowing other moments of the consumer density to be uncertain. An equilibrium existence result is given. In the case of symmetric distributions, the unique subgame-perfect equilibrium can be described by a simple closed-form solution.
R39|Les modes de communication et leurs combinaisons. Quand l'espace compte toujours|In this paper we use the c.o.i. survey and the « Techniques et Organisation du Travail » (1987, 1993) surveys to document workplace communication patterns in urban, suburban and rural areas. Workers in large cities communicate more than workers in small cities and then more in small cities relative to rural areas. However, there are no clear spatial differences when it comes to face-to-face communication. The assertions prevailing in the literature about the greater prevalence of face-to-face in cities do not receive much empirical validation. We also investigate complementarities across different media of communication using a variety of methodologies (measures of correlations between different media and production functions of communication). Complementarities across media do not lend much support to popular predictions about the forthcoming demise of cities. Classification JEL : R19, R39, Z13
R39|Organisational proximity: an institutionalist point of view. The case of EADS (In French)|This article proposes a definition of the a-spatial dimension of the proximity by adopting institutionalism point of view. In a first part, we distinguish institutional proximity and organisational proximity. According to the distinction suggested by Commons between institution and organization, the organisational proximity is understood like a particular form of institutional proximity. The heterogeneous actors who share this organizational proximity must integrate structure of power and can reach memory of the organization. In a second part, we examine how the new firm EADS built such proximity between its units, belonging still little time ago at three distinct firms.
R39|Economies of Scale in der Produktion versus Diseconomies im Transport: Zum Strukturwandel in der Milchindustrie|In this article, we simulate the concentration process within the German dairy sector employing a sector?wide optimization model. As a result, we get cost minimizing structures of the dairy sector for various time horizons depending on varying levels of transportation costs. We show that the model is capable of describing the current trend characterized by a decrease of the number of dairies while average capacity increases and that – ceteris paribus – this trend is likely to continue. In contrast, the trend may weaken or reverse if transportation costs rise in comparison to other types of costs.
R39|The Origin and Location of Entrants in the Evolution of the U.S. Tire Industry|During its early and formative years, the U.S. tire industry was heavily concentrated around Akron, Ohio. We test the extent to which entrants in Ohio were attracted to the Akron area by agglomeration benefits, contributing to a self-reinforcing process envisioned in many modern theories of geography. We trace the geographic and intellectual heritage of the Ohio entrants and analyze the factors underlying their creation and location at the county level. Our findings suggest it was the creation of entrants, largely spurred by the supply of entrepreneurs, and not the attraction of entrants to the Akron area that fueled the agglomeration of the industry there.
R39|Measuring the Localization of Economic Activity: A Random Utility Approach|The recent index proposed by Ellison & Glaeser (1997) is now well established as the preferred method for measuring the localization of economic activity. We build on McFadden's Random Utility (Profit) Maximization framework, to develop a parametric version of this measure that is more consistent with the theory originally proposed by Ellison and Glaeser (EG). Given that our method is regression based, it goes beyond the descriptive nature of the EG index, allowing us to evaluate how the localization measure behaves with changes in the determinants that drive firms' location decisions.
R39|Location Modelling and the Localization of Portuguese Manufacturing Industries|The recent index proposed in Ellison & Glaeser (1997) is now well established as the preferred method for measuring localization of economic activity. We critically review this index and build on the McFaddenÂ’s Random Utility (Profit) Maximization framework to develop an alternative measure that is more consistent with the theoretical construct underlying the original work of Ellison and Glaeser. Given that our method is regression based it goes beyond the descriptive nature of the EG index and allows us to evaluate how the localization measure behaves with changes in the systematic forces that drive firmsÂ’ location decisions. JEL classification: C25, R12, R39
R39|Hungarian-Romanian Cross-Border Economic Co-Operation|The differences in the transformation process have resulted in a diverging economic development in Hungarian and Romanian regions while their contacts have intensified. The less developed part of a more developed country meets the more developed part of a lesser-developed country. A firm- survey carried out on the two sides of the border between Hungary and Romania shows that firms take advantage of the closeness of the other region, at least in terms of foreign trade. We find no evidence for the migration of the workforce from the lower-salary region toward the higher-salary one. The sample supports the hypothesis that Hungarians from the border region invest in the nearby Romanian region. Although the time of EU accession is far away compared to the time-horizon of firms, substantial changes can be foreseen for the time when Hungary becomes a member but not Romania. Hungary may lose its attractive- ness for Romanian firms as a bridgehead and easily accessible country.
R39|Novelty Effects of New Facilities on Attendance at Professional Sporting Events|"We investigate the possibility that new facilities affect attendance - the ""novelty effect"" - in professional baseball, basketball, and football from 1969-2001 by estimating the parameters of a reduced form attendance model. Our results indicate a strong, persistent novelty effect in baseball and basketball and little or no novelty effect in football. Our estimates of size and duration of the novelty effect imply that, in a new facility, at a minimum, a baseball team would sell an additional 2,561,702 tickets over the first eight seasons, a basketball team 446,936 over the first nine seasons, and a football team 163,436 over the first five seasons. This increase in attendance also suggests a corresponding increase in revenues that could be tapped to help defray the large public subsidies that state and local governments frequently provide to new stadium and arena construction projects."
R39|Do regional systems of innovation matter?|The paper deals with the significant impact of location on innovation activity that has been found in many empirical studies. Main elements of such an explanation are the specific problems of a division of innovative labor. Based on an outline of these issues the concept of a regional innovation system is presented in some detail and an overview of results from recent research on regional innovation systems is given. The paper then discusses basic policy options and names a number of important questions for further research.
R39|Services aux entreprises, centralité et multipolarisation. Le cas de Lyon|This paper deals with the intrametropolitan location strategies of business services. These activities are traditionnaly highly concentrated in the centre. Recent studies show however that they tend to peripherise and that they can be part of the multipolarisation process. The empirical work consists in an analysis of the urban area of Lyon. The results show that business services contribute to restructure the economic basis of the centre and allow it to continue to ensure a sp?cifie r?le within the metropolitan area. In parallel, these activities tend to locate in the periphery but in a very selective way. They participate to the multipolarisation of the metropolitan area of Lyon, which articulates around a strong centre not ??edge cities?? but very specialised, non hierarchical and largely complementary poles. Classification JEL?: R11, R12, R39.
R39|Modeling industrial location decisions in U.S. counties|Given its sound theoretical underpinnings, the Random Utility Maximization-based conditional logit model has been the methodological basis for applied research on industrial location decisions. However, in practice, the implementation of this methodology presents problems. A notable one is the underlying Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives (IIA) assumption. In this paper we show that by taking advantage of an equivalence relation between the likelihood function of the conditional logit model and the Poisson regression [Guimarães, Figueiredo and Woodward (2002)] one can more effectively control for the potential IIA violation resulting from omitted attribute characteristics. We also provide an empirical illustration, wherein we exemplify how that relation can be helpful to investigate the location determinants of new manufacturing plants in the United States counties.
R39|Individual Contacts, Collective Patterns - Prato 1975-97, a Story of Interactions|This article presents an agent-based modelof Prato, an Italian textile district where thousands ofsma1l firms specialise into tiny phases of the whole production process. It is an empirical model atscale 1: 1 that reconstructs the information flows between economic actors and connects them tostructural properties of the district. It studies the evolution of Prato from 1975 to 1997.
R39|Modeling industrial location decisions in U.S. counties|Given its sound theoretical underpinnings, the RandomUtilityMaximizationbased conditional logit model (CLM) serves as the principal method for applied research on industrial location decisions. Studies that implemented this methodology, however, had to confront the underlying Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives (IIA) assumption and were unable to fully accommodate this problem. This paper shows that by taking advantage of an equivalent relation between the CLM and Poisson regression likelihood functions one can more e.ectively control for the potential IIA violation in complex choice scenarios where the decision-maker confronts a large number of spatial alternatives. The paper also provides an illustration, demonstrating the advantages of this relation in investigation of location determinants of new manufacturing plant births in the U.S. counties.
R39|Métropolisation et polarités intra-urbaines. Le cas de Lyon|Metropolization, namely the concentration of households and activity in the more developped cities, leads to greater spatial differentiation and specialization in the urban area, generating new flows and new urban dysfunctions. Although distance to the centre is still relevant to understand the location of economic activities, a spatial analysis of the location of the establishments in the urban area of Lyon highlights the emergence of peripheral employment poles, the most attractive and diversified of which suggest that a shift towards a multi-functional polycentric urban organization is taking place. Classification JEL?: R11, R12, R39.
R39|De la spécificité à la compétitivité. L'exemple de la construction de la compétitivité sur une base territoriale|Considering the idea of location as a specific asset, this article deals with the question of the link between specificity and competitiveness. Meeting the approaches of the spatial and industrial economists, the firm's theories and the strategic theories, this question implies a reflection on the resources and competences of the territory and the firm's capacities to mobilize them. It appears that the discussion about assets specificity is inseparable from a reflection about the aspects of competitiveness that cannot ignore the Transaction Cost Theory.
R39|Externalités d'informations et évolution des villes / Information externalities and the evolution of cities|Aujourd'hui, les activités qui font la ville se transforment. Les activités de services financiers, juridiques et de la recherche prennent une part de plus en plus importante dans les activités urbaines. Ces activités relèvent des fonctions de conception, de décision et de contrôle. Or elles utilisent beaucoup de capital humain et de haute technologie : cela les rend fortement consommatrices et productrices d'informations. Mais à l'ère de l'information, la concentration de ces activités dans les villes peut apparaître paradoxale. Si ces activités sont agglomérées, c'est qu'il existe un besoin de proximité pour échanger des informations. Or, aujourd'hui, grâce aux technologies de la communication, on peut transmettre des informations sans que le face à face soit nécessaire. Dans ces conditions, il convient se s'interroger sur les liens entre échanges d'informations, agglomération et dispersion. Le but de ce papier est de proposer des pistes de réflexions sur le rôle des échanges d'informations dans l'évolution urbaine. Il s'agit alors de différencier les interactions informationnelles selon leur sensibilité aux progrès des technologies et d'identifier leur impact agglomératif. Pour cela, nous nous appuyons sur les instruments de l'économie géographique. / Present-day city growth is chiefly the result of new tertiary activities such as financial and producer services, R&D, or business administration. These activities consume human capital, knowledge and high-tech capital, which are all rapidly changing inputs; they are based on complex decision-making processes; this renders them highly information-dependent. Inasmuch as these activities are the main key to understanding the city, information must play a leading role in understanding urban forms. The concentration of these activities in cities appears paradoxical in the era of information. They are agglomerated because of their need of proximity for exchanging information. But information can be transmited very easily at a long distance with new communication technologies. In this context, the links between information exchanges, agglomeration and dispersion have to be investigated. In the framework of economic geography, this paper aims to study the role of information exchanges in the evolution of cities. We shall split information exchanges according both to their sensitivity to the progress of communication technologies and to their agglomeration effect.
R39|Statistical and mathematical sources of regional science theory: Map pattern analysis as an example|"Krugman states that ""Regional science is not a unified subject. It is best described as a collection of tools."" Unfortunately such a perspective fails to fully acknowledge theoretical dimensions of the accompanying refocusing on geographic expressions of economic linkages, such as those highlighted in spatial externalities specifications. Such promulgated aspects of the spatial economic landscape relate to map pattern, and certainly the spatial statistics and spatial econometrics theory that accompanies it, as well as the underlying substantive theory garnered from a variety of sources. The principal implication is other than ""loose- jointed, do-the-best-you-can theorizing""."
R39|Information Cost, Learning, and Trust Lessons from Co-operation and Higher-order Capabilities Amongst Geographically Proximate Firms|In this short paper, I put forward an argument about trust based upon an information cost perspective. I argue that, in different contexts, different origins of trust come to dominate. This is so, because different possible origins of trust have a different information cost, and different contexts have different information availability. Agents learn about this, and place their trust accordingly. I provide an empirical example, and list some traits of information availability between geographically proximate firms. The information cost argument explains why a particular way of trusting is prevalent in some proximate ‘communities’ of agents.
R39|Localisation des decharges de dechets menagers: que nous apprend l'economie regionale?|Ce travail propose de faire le point sur l'experience acquise en matiere de localisation des decharges afin de l'utiliser plus tard pour d'autres problemes d'actualite sur lesquels des donnees statistiques ne sont pas disponibles. Existe-t-il des tendances qu'il est important de comprendre et de mettre en evidence pour faciliter et envisager la localisation des unites de traitement des dechets? Que nous apprennent les localisations des decharges sur les comportements des agents economiques face aux dechets?
R39|Nomadisme et ancrage territorial : reperes methodologiques pour une approche renouvelee des relations firmes-territoires|"The purpose of this paper is to propose an approach of the firms-territories relationships that should not be restricted to the sole point of view of the localisation's theory. Such an approach aims then to refer to a continous temporality that should not reduced to the sole moments of an attraction-localisation game that is the one of the ""territories' competition"" paradigm."
R39|La problemetique du Nomadisme ou l'ancrage territorial des activites industrielles et technologiques|No abstract is available for this item.
R39|La localisation d'activites, le cout du capital, la politique regionale et la taxation internationale|No abstract is available for this item.
R39|Are agricultural markets location-optimal? A case study of Gaya District (Bihar)|The thesis of efficiency and optimality of Indian agricultural system has several facets that have called for attention of a number of scholars. Some have proved allocative optimality of resource utilization, the others have proved optimality of distribution of gains from agriculture, while still others have come up with the cases of marketing optimality. However, there is hardly any work that studies location optimality of market centers in any region of India. In this paper we examine if the empirically observed market locations are optimal and as a case study take up the agricultural markets located in Gaya district of Bihar. We have used the location-allocation model for optimality analysis. Our findings reveal that existing locations and arrivals of merchandise at the agricultural markets of Gaya are very close to what might have been if they had been located on the principle of optimality. There are minor deviations, of course. However, as the existing markets have developed in an open region, unlike our cost-optimal locations searched out in a closed region, a discount must be made in favour of the existing locations, and we do not have enough reasons and evidence to conclude that the existing markets are sub-optimally located. We conclude, therefore, that market forces automatically establish location optimality and assert that the existing agricultural markets in Gaya district are location-optimal.
