R40|Provable loss analysis - evaluation of financial health in public transportation from accounting viewpoint|The submitted paper analyses the financial health evaluation of the public transport company. The main goal of the paper is to analyse determining of the provable loss amount in the public line transport, track-based transport and municipal public transport pursuant to Government Decree No. 493/2004 Sb., Regulation No. 241/2005 Sb. and Regulation No. 296/2010 Sb. and the methods of payment of subsidies in the regional and long-distance transport. Basic characteristics or the explanatory power of individual legal regulations addressing the issue of economically substantiated costs and revenues and the payment of the relevant amount of compensation (subsidy) arising from the basic transport services prove that Regulation No. 296/2010 Sb. promotes higher financial drawing from public budgets for the needs of ensuring basic transport services and for the renewal of the fleet as compared with Government Decree No. 493/2004 Sb. in case of the public line transport and Regulation No. 241/2005 Sb. in case of the public track-based transport. The partial goal of the thesis is to classify the cost and revenue items affecting the amount of the subsidy and to propose effective classification in individual groups of economically substantiated costs on the basis of their explanatory power.
R40|The making of the modern metropolis: evidence from London|Modern metropolitan areas involve large concentrations of economic activity and the transport of millions of people each day between their residence and workplace. We use the revolution in transport technology from the invention of steam railways, newly-constructed spatially-disaggregated data for London from 1801-1921, and a quantitative urban model to provide evidence on the role of these commuting flows in supporting such concentrations of economic activity. Steam railways dramatically reduced travel times and permitted the first large scale separation of workplace and residence. We show that our model is able to account for the observed changes in the organization of economic activity, both qualitatively and quantitatively. In counterfactuals, we find that removing the entire railway network reduces the population and the value of land and buildings in Greater London by 20 percent or more, and brings down commuting into the City of London from more than 370,000 to less than 60,000 workers.
R40|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
R40|CAFE in the City – A Spatial Analysis of Fuel Economy Standards|Climate policy instruments in the transportation sector like fuel economy standards (CAFE) and fuel taxes not only affect households’ vehicle choice, but also the urban form in the long run. We introduce household level vehicle choice into the urban economic monocentric city model and run long-term climate policy scenarios to analyze the welfare effects of this urban adjustment in reaching emission goals. This goes beyond more short-term empirical analyses of the rebound effect in driving. We find that stricter CAFE standards lead to an urban expansion and considerable additional welfare costs for certain emission goals, unaccounted for in the previous literature on welfare costs of CAFE. These welfare costs can be reduced roughly by one half through the combination of CAFE with an urban growth boundary. Fuel taxes, in turn, lead to an urban contraction and additional welfare gains. We analyze the sensitivity of the results to changes in model parameters.
R40|Affordable Housing and City Welfare|Housing affordability has become one of the main policy challenges for the major cities of the world. Two key policy levers are zoning and rent control policies. We build a new dynamic equilibrium asset pricing model to evaluate the implications of such policies for house prices, rents, production and income, residential construction, income and wealth inequality, as well as the spatial distribution of households within the city. We calibrate the model to New York City, incorporating current zoning and rent control systems. Our model suggests large welfare gains from relaxing zoning regulations in Manhattan, and more modest gains from reducing the size of the rent control program. The former policy is progressive and a Pareto improvement, while rent control reform is regressive in nature and hurts the current beneficiaries.
R40|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
R40|Simulating the impact of transport infrastructure investment on wages: A dynamic spatial panel model approach|This paper estimates the impact of a multi-billion pound investment in Britain's rail transport infrastructure, in the form of high-speed rail links, on wage levels across each of 347 districts of England and Wales. The impacts are based on a dynamic spatial panel model adaptation of standard urban economics based on employment density and commuting patterns. This allows estimation of these global impacts operating via improved commuting times. We demonstrate that while estimates of a traditional market potential approach with fixed effects are to some extent qualitatively and quantitatively similar to our predictions, our predictions allow more heterogeneous effects and give more accurate forecasts. The study finds that on average wages increase by around 2% as employment centres gain improved access to more skilled workers and as spillover effects become spatially more extensive. While most areas see modest positive effects, some locations are negatively affected, in the extreme case by as much as 7%.
R40|Working Paper 01-19 - Future evolution of the car stock in Belgium: CASMO, the new satellite of PLANET|The new Belgian CAr Stock MOdel, which is linked to the national transport demand model PLANET, is structured as follows: (a) The total desired car stock in each future year is a function of the country's population and GDP per capita. (b) The probability that a car is scrapped is modelled as a function of its age and accumulated mileage. The desired car stock is then confronted with the remaining car stock to determine total car purchases. (c) Total sales are allocated to individual emission classes, using the parameter values of a Stated Preference discrete choice model. The model is then calibrated in order to reflect the current market and policy context in Belgium (d) The results are mapped into an inventory that is aggregated according to the EURO emission class. (e) In order to represent that the non-price barriers to electrified cars will decrease over time, we have implemented an alternative approach where the perceived acquisition costs decrease over time. Alternatively, this approach can be used to explore what would be the required decrease in subjective costs to reach a given future market share.
R40|Economic and Political Factors in Infrastructure Investment: Evidence from Railroads and Roads in Africa 1960--2015|Transport investment has played an important role in the economic development of many countries. Starting from a low base, African countries have recently initiated several massive transportation infrastructure projects. However, surprisingly little is known about the current levels, past evolution, and correlates of transportation infrastructure in Africa. In this paper, we introduce a new data set on the evolution of the stocks of railroads (1862-2015) and multiple types of roads (1960-2015) for 43 sub-Saharan African countries. First, we compare our estimates with those from other available data sets, such as the World Development Indicators of the World Bank. Second, we document the aggregate evolution of transportation investments over the past century in Africa. We confirm that railroads were a ``colonial'' transportation technology, whereas paved roads were a ``post-colonial'' technology. We also highlight how investment patterns have followed economic patterns. Third, we report conditional correlations between 5-year infrastructure growth and several geographic, economic and political factors during the period 1960-2015. We find strong correlations between transportation investments and economic development as well as more political factors including pre-colonial centralization, ethnic fractionalization, European settlement, natural resource dependence, and democracy.
R40|Railway capacity allocation: a survey of market organizations, allocation processes and track access charges|In the last few decades, many railway markets (especially in Europe) have been restructured to allow competition between different operators. This survey studies how competition has been introduced and regulated in a number of different countries around the world. In particular, we focus on a central part of market regulation specific to railway markets, namely the capacity allocation process. Conflicting capacity requests from different train operators need to be regulated and resolved, and the efficiency and transparency of this process is crucial. Related to this issue is how access charges are constructed and applied. Several European countries have vertically separated their railway markets, separating infrastructure management from train services provisions, thus allowing several train operators to compete with different passengers and freight services. However, few countries have so far managed to create efficient and transparent processes for allocating capacity between competing train operators, and incumbent operators still have larger market-share in many markets.
R40|Pricing commercial train path requests based on societal costs|On deregulated railway markets, efficient capacity allocation is important. We study the case where commercial trains and publicly controlled traffic (“commuter trains”) use the same railway infrastructure and hence compete for capacity. We develop a method that can be used by an infrastructure manager trying to allocate capacity in a socially efficient way. The method calculates the loss of social benefits incurred by changing the commuter train timetable to accommodate a commercial train path request and based on this calculates a reservation price for the train path request. If the commercial operator’s willingness-to-pay for the train path exceeds the loss of social benefits, its request is approved. The calculation of social benefits takes into account changes in commuter train passengers’ travel times, waiting times, transfers and crowding, and changes in operating costs for the commuter train operator(s). The method is implemented in a microscopic simulation program, which makes it possible to test the robustness and feasibility of timetable alternatives. We show that the method is possible to apply in practice by demonstrating it in a case study from Stockholm, illustrating the magnitudes of the resulting commercial train path prices. We conclude that marginal societal costs of railway capacity in Stockholm are considerably higher than the current track access charges.
R40|Benefits of noise measure in train commuting suburbs: a comparison of Swedish guidelines and WHO recommendations|In this study, we compare different valuation functions for a noise abatement measure in an exploitive train commuting suburb in Sweden. The benefits are estimated with different functions focusing on Swedish guidelines and recent WHO recommendations. The results show that the willingness-to-pay-based estimates of the Swedish guidelines are much lower than the estimates based on WHO guidelines. The main reason for the higher benefit estimates with WHO recommendations is the discontinuous valuation function that leaps from 0 to about 5000 SEK at 49 dB, whereas the Swedish guidelines does not include any corresponding discontinuity in its valuation function. Furthermore, the WHO recommendations are sensitive to night exposure as the cost of sleep disturbance is dominating. These different results of the monetary benefits illustrate the importance of including only established impact functions and valuation functions, and carefully apply them when noise-abatement benefits are calculated.
R40|Bright Investments: Measuring the Impact of Transport Infrastructure Using Luminosity Data in Haiti|This paper quantifies the impacts of transport infrastructure investments on economic activity in Haiti, using satellite night-light luminosity as a proxy measure. Our identification strategy exploits the differential timing of rehabilitation projects across various road segments of the primary road network. We combine multiple sources of non-traditional data and carefully address concerns related to unobserved heterogeneity. The results obtained across multiple specifications consistently indicate that receiving a road rehabilitation project leads to an increase in luminosity values of between 6% and 26% at the communal section level. Taking into account the national level elasticity between luminosity values and GDP, we approximate that these interventions translate into communal section-GDP increases of between 0.5% and 2.1%, for communal sections benefited by a transport infrastructure project. We observe temporal and spatial variation in results, and crucially that the larger impacts appear once projects are completed and are concentrated within 2 km buffers around the intervened roads. Neither the richest or the poorest communities reap the benefits from road improvements, with gains accruing to those in the middle of the ranking of communal sections, based on unsatisfied basic needs. Our findings provide novel evidence on the role of transport investments in promoting economic activity in developing countries.
R40|A Rapid Road to Employment? The Impacts of a Bus Rapid Transit System in Lima|Despite the growing interest in and proliferation of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems around the world, their causal impacts on labor market outcomes remain unexplored. Reduced travel times for those who live near BRT stations or near feeder lines, may increase access to a wider array of job opportunities, potentially leading to increased rates of employment, access to higher quality (or formal) jobs, and increased labor hours and earnings. This paper assesses the effects of the Metropolitano, the BRT system in Lima (Peru), on individual-level job market outcomes. We rely on a difference-in-differences empirical strategy, based on comparing individuals who live close to the BRT system with a comparison group that lives farther from the system, before and after the system started to operate. We find large impacts on employment, hours worked and labor earnings for those individuals close to the BRT stations, but not for those who live close to the feeder lines. Despite the potential to connect poor populations, we find no evidence of impacts for populations living in lower income areas.
R40|Cross-border transport infrastructure in the EU|The report provides a set of indicators and tools that allow policy makers to measure accessibility and connectivity of border regions in Europe at both national and international levels. The methodology can be used to identify areas where transport infrastructure may be lacking and prioritize potential investments based on specific policy relevant criteria. The approach uses very detailed spatially disaggregate data covering EU28 plus Norway and Switzerland at grid level (1km by 1km), as well as the complete road network. This level of resolution allows many of the specificities of the areas covered to be taken into account.
R40|The future of road transport|"A perfect storm of new technologies and new business models is transforming not only our vehicles, but everything about how we get around, and how we live our lives. The JRC report ""The future of road transport - Implications of automated, connected, low-carbon and shared mobility"" looks at some main enablers of the transformation of road transport, such as data governance, infrastructures, communication technologies and cybersecurity, and legislation. It discusses the potential impacts on the economy, employment and skills, energy use and emissions, the sustainability of raw materials, democracy, privacy and social fairness, as well as on the urban context. It shows how the massive changes on the horizon represent an opportunity to move towards a transport system that is more efficient, safer, less polluting and more accessible to larger parts of society than the current one centred on car ownership. However, new transport technologies, on their own, won't spontaneously make our lives better without upgrading our transport systems and policies to the 21st century. The improvement of governance and the development of innovative mobility solutions will be crucial to ensure that the future of transport is cleaner and more equitable than its car-centred present."
R40|Estimating road transport costs between EU regions|Transport costs are a crucial element of any spatial economic model. Surprisingly, good transport cost estimates at a detailed spatial level for the EU are not readily available. In this paper we address this issue by estimating a novel dataset of road freight transport costs for goods for the EU regions at the NUTS 2 level. In the spirit of the generalized transport cost (GTC) concept, we calculate the composite cost related to distance and time for the optimal route of a representative truck. We consider routes between large random samples of centroids drawn from a 1kmx1km population density grid. These transport costs are averaged to obtain an origin-destination cost matrix (in euros) at the region-pair level. The sampling approach also allows calculating the average transport cost within the regions. We separately report the corresponding iceberg transport costs for each pair of European regions, since this is the form of input required by many economic models. We also consider the effect of changes in the components of the GTC in order to evaluate transport policies. We set up a transport policy tool to assess the impact of road-transport infrastructure investment in a region by considering upgrading roads to highways. We apply this tool to study transport infrastructure investment through the European Cohesion Policy program 2014-2020.
R40|Evaluating the transport-mode-specific trade effects of different transport infrastructure types|Both qualitative and quantitative improvements for five different transport infrastructure types are evaluated with respect to their transport-mode-specific trade effects. Strong trade increases are found for survey-based quality indicators of airport and railroad infrastructure. For road trade, the road density is more important than the quality of road infrastructure. Additionally, the infrastructure quality of transit countries is an important trade flow driver of the land transport modes road and railroad. For the analysis of these effects, I use a gravity equation model with European trade flows that are disaggregated over five different transport modes. In combination with the quality and quantity indicators for each corresponding type of transport infrastructure, it is possible to directly estimate the unique trade effects for each infrastructure type. Moreover, a novel cross-mode analysis is conducted to estimate interdependencies and cross-effects that exist between different transport infrastructure types and different transport modes.
R40|A free rider problem? The effect of electric vehicles on urban toll prices in Norway|Several cities around the world try to internalise congestion costs from road traffic by instituting charges for entering their city centres. The revenues collected from these charges are often redistributed to improve conditions for motorists, cy- clists, pedestrians and public transport. At the same time, many schemes allow for exemption of cleaner vehicles, which might offset the reduction in congestion and reduce revenue. In this paper, I assess the effects of exempting electric vehicles from charge on the charge level. Using panel data of Norwegian cities with urban toll rings, I exploit regional variation, and and that a higher share of electric vehicles increase toll charges. The results imply that owners of conventional cars pay 2.5 NOK (0.3 USD) more per passing because of the exemption. The estimates are robust to variations in estimation method and sample. As the majority of electric vehicle owners have above-average income, exempting electric cars from toll charges suggests a distribution effect that have implications for social welfare.
R40|Addressing urban sprawl from the complexity sciences|Urban sprawl is nowadays a pervasive topic that is subject of a contentious debate among planners and researchers, who still fail to reach consensual solutions. This paper reviews controversies of the sprawl debate and argues that they owe to a failure of the employed methods to appraise its complexity, especially the notion that urban form emerges from multiple overlapping interactions between households, firms and governmental bodies. To address such issues, this review focuses on recent approaches to study urban spatial dynamics. Firstly, spatial metrics from landscape ecology provide means of quantifying urban sprawl in terms of increasing fragmentation and diversity of land use patches. Secondly, cellular automata and agent-based models suggest that the prevalence of urban sprawl and fragmentation at the urban fringe emerge from negative spatial interaction between residential agents, which seem accentuated as the agent’s preferences become more heterogeneous. Then, the review turns to practical applications that employ such models to spatially inform urban planning and assess future scenarios. A concluding discussion summarizes potential contributions to the debate on urban sprawl as well as some epistemological implications.
R40|Railways, Growth, and Industrialisation in a Developing German Economy, 1829-1910|This paper provides a comprehensive assessment of the effect of railways on the spatial economic development of a German economy, the Kingdom of Württemberg, during the Industrial Revolution. Our identification strategy compares the economic development of `winning' municipalities that were connected to the railway in 1845-54 to the development of `losing' municipalities that were the runners-up choice for a given railway line between two major towns. Estimates from both differences-in-differences and inverse-probability-weighted models suggest that railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points over more than half a century. Railways also increased wages, income and housing values, in line with predictions of economic geography models of transport infrastructure improvements, reduced the gender wage gap, and accelerated the transition away from agriculture. We find little evidence that these effects are driven by localised displacement effects.
R40|Sustainability of the transport sector during the last 20 years: evidences from a panel of 35 countries|Between 1990 and 2015, the annual global amount of CO 2 emission generated by transport has increased by 68%, from around 4.6 GtCO 2 to around 7.7 GtCO2. Technological advances towards eco friendly vehicles and policy incentives promoting environmental friendly modes of transport have thus been offset by economic growth and increasing mobility. This study questions the relationship between economic growth and sustainability performance of transport sector. It adds to the literature new insights concerning recent trends in the relationship between gross domestic product and various aspects of transport sustainability such as carbon footprint, carbon intensity and transport safety. A particular attention is given to discussing the emerging issues of “carbon inequality” and the role of political entities that contribute most to global CO2 emissions, such China, USA and the EU. Finally, this study adds to the literature a composite index of transport sustainability performance and explores between country inequalities in terms of sustainability performance.
R40|Autonomous, Connected, Electric Shared vehicles (ACES) and public finance: an explorative analysis|This paper discusses the implications of autonomous-connected-electric-shared vehicles (ACES) for public finance, which have so far been widely ignored. In OECD countries, 5-12% of federal and up to 30% of local tax revenue are currently from fuel and vehicle taxation. The diffusion of ACES will likely reduce these important sources of government revenues, while also affecting transport-related government expenditures. We argue that the realization of socioeconomic benefits of ACES depends on the implementation of tailored public finance policies. In particular, the introduction of road tolls in line with ‘user pays’ and ‘polluter pays’ principles will become more attractive. Moreover, innovation in taxation schemes to fit the changing technological circumstances may alter the (relative) importance of levels of governance in transport policy making, likely shifting power towards local (in particular urban) governmental levels. We finally argue that due to path-dependencies, and the risk of lock-in effects in sub-optimal public finance regimes, further research and near-term policy action regarding ACES is required.
R40|Go east: On the impact of the Transiberian Railway on economic development in Eastern Russia|This paper addresses the question whether or not large-scale infrastructure investments have a causal effect of local economic development. By using a novel instrumental variable approach based on historical trade and travel routes across the Russian East, I am able to identify a causal and negative effect of remoteness to the Transsiberian Railway on local economic activity as measured by nocturnal lights emission.
R40|France: Promoting economic opportunities and well-being in poor neighbourhoods|Thanks to a highly developed welfare state, poverty is moderate on average in France, but – as in other countries – highly concentrated in some neighbourhoods. Their residents face many social disadvantages, including high unemployment and inactivity, schools with many struggling children, often run-down housing and urban infrastructure, and a lack of local enterprises, services and amenities. The government focuses a wide array of policies on these areas to promote better schooling outcomes, employment and local economic activity. Urban renewal and public housing policies aim explicitly at promoting social mixing, often presented as an anti-ghetto policy. Evidence suggests that targeted investment in transport and housing infrastructure as well as education and training could go a long way to improving economic opportunities and well-being in poor areas. In contrast, special economic zones with tax breaks to attract business to these areas have a mixed track record at best. Greater social mixing is difficult to engineer, and it is far from clear if this by itself would improve the lives of the poor. There is a need to better link urban, social and judicial policies favouring alternative sentencing and support for offenders to integrate into society to avoid vicious circles of social disadvantage and crime.
R40|France: Améliorer les perspectives économiques et le bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés|Grâce à un système de protection sociale très développé, le taux de pauvreté moyen est peu élevé en France. Toutefois, comme dans d’autres pays, la pauvreté est fortement concentrée dans certains quartiers. Leurs habitants sont confrontés à de nombreux handicaps sur le plan social : chômage et inactivité élevés, forte proportion d’élèves en difficulté, logements et infrastructures urbaines en mauvais état, et pénurie d’entreprises, de services et d’agréments. L’État cible un large éventail de politiques sur ces quartiers afin d’améliorer les résultats scolaires, l’emploi et l’activité économique. Les politiques de rénovation urbaine et du logement social ont un objectif explicite de promotion de la mixité sociale, souvent considérée comme un instrument de lutte contre les ghettos. Les investissements ciblés dans les infrastructures de transport et de logement ainsi que dans l’éducation et la formation jouent un rôle déterminant dans l’amélioration des perspectives économiques et du bien-être des habitants des quartiers défavorisés. À l’inverse, les zones franches urbaines (ZFU) offrant des allègements d’impôts aux entreprises qui s’y installent obtiennent des résultats en demi-teinte. La mixité sociale est difficile à mettre en oeuvre et il est loin d’être évident qu’elle permette, à elle seule, d’améliorer les conditions de vie des populations pauvres. Il est aussi crucial d’améliorer la coordination entre les politiques sociale, de la ville et de la justice, en privilégiant les peines alternatives et l’accompagnement des anciens détenus dans leur réinsertion afin de briser le cercle vicieux du handicap social et de la criminalité.
R40|The wider economic benefits of transport corridors: a policy framework and illustrative application to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor|This article discusses a new policy framework to appraise proposals of large transport infrastructure investmentsâ€”transport corridorsâ€”and applies it to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The framework emphasises the need to focus appraisal on the ultimate benefits that households along a corridor and, more generally, society, can attainâ€”such as increased consumption, better jobs and greater equity. It also emphasises the need to identify and manage trade-offs. The appraisal framework is applied to Pakistanâ€™s portion of the CPEC. Simulations suggest important heterogeneous impacts of CPEC among districts in Pakistan stemming from variations in restrictions on land use and in secondary education across connected districts.
R40|Financing Sustainability and Resiliency of Transportation Infrastructure in an Era of Fiscal Constraint|In this short paper, I review several solutions in order to provide technical assistance to U.S. State officials in implementing new financing approaches for surface transportation projects. The general idea is to educate transportation officials on project funding and finance options, project planning and delivery, and life-cycle asset management. I examine a strategic plan and attempt to identify specific goals of such technical assistance.
R40|Геополитички Аспекти Стратешких Коридора Србије<BR>[Geopolitical Aspects of the Strategic Corridors of Serbia]|Serbian. Коридори преко Балкана могу имати вишеструки значај у саобраћају, енергетици, привреди уопште, али и у ширем геополитичком контексту. У раду се анализирају важни путни и енергетски коридори (цевоводи) преко Србије. У питању су магистрални путеви ширег регионалног па и европског значаја који пролазе преко територије Србије. Потом ту су железничке трасе, укључујући и оне у нацртима, попут оне која ће се уклапати у концепт кинеског пута свиле, пре свега Пиреј‒Будимпешта. Цевоводни правци, пре свега гасоводи, нафтоводи, имају изузетан и шири геополитички значај. То се посебно односи на могућности реализације неке од варијанти Јужног тока, који остаје актуелан, и хипотетички у неком облику остварљив. Иако Србија нема директан излаз на море, најближе луке суседних земаља, пре свега оних блиских и историјских савезника попут Црне Горе, Бугарске, Грчке и Румуније имају посебан значај. Ту су нарочито значајне луке Бар, Солун, а у мањој мери бугарске и румунске важне луке (Бургас, Варна, Констанца) одакле би Србија имала погодан транзит поморским саобраћајем. English. The corridors crisscrossing the Balkans bear significance in the context of transport, energetics and industry as a whole, as well as in a broader geopolitical context. The paper analyzes the important road routes and energy corridors (pipelines) passing through Serbia. Specifically, it refers to highways significant both regionally and on continental level, which pass through the territory of the country. It also covers railroads, including the ones still in draft phase, such as the Piraeus-Budapest one, which is wupposed to be included in the outline of the Chinese Silk Road. The pipelines, especially the gas lines and the oil pipelines, are of wider geopolitical relevance. Specifically, the possibility of the realization of one of the South Stream versions, which continues being considered and in some form a hypotetically attainable plan. Although Serbia does not have access to sea, the closest ports in neighboring countries, especially the close and traditionally friendly ones such as Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, are especially important in that context. The ports of Bar and Thessaloniki are of extraordinary significance, while the Bulgarian and Romanian ports of Burgas, Varna and Constanta, although somewhat less important, could provide Serbia with convenient points for waterway transport routes.
R40|Gasoline savings from clean vehicle adoption|Conventional counterfactuals used in literature may underestimate fuel savings from clean vehicle adoption, thus overestimating the costs of securing associated environmental benefits. Using a large-scale nationally representative sample of U.S. new car buyers, we propose a choice model-based counterfactual approach to predict what consumers would purchase if clean vehicles were unavailable. We find that gasoline consumption under a no clean vehicle scenario increases by 1.7%, compared with 1.1% based on a conventional counterfactual. The conventional counterfactual overestimates the cost of gasoline savings from clean vehicle adoption incentives by $1.16 (27%) per gallon compared with the choice model-based counterfactual.
R40|Driven by Change: Commercial Drivers’ Acceptance and Perceived Efficiency of Using Light-Duty Electric Vehicles in Germany|In this paper, we examine to what extent commercial drivers accept the substitution of conventional cars with light-duty e-vehicles (LDEVs) by conducting a cross-sectional survey at Deutsche Post, a major German postal delivery service provider. Specifically, we explore drivers’ acceptance from two perspectives. First, we investigate whether drivers are more satisfied with the LDEVs than with the conventional vehicles. Second, we question whether the EVs increase drivers’ perceived efficiency. Combining these two perspectives, we show that the greater the drivers’ overall satisfaction with LDEVs, the higher is the drivers’ perceived efficiency. We prove this by means of latent measures, such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, using adaptations of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model and Rogers’ Diffusion of Innovation Theory to form our Unified Technology Acceptance Model. Findings suggest that, on average, drivers are slightly more satisfied with their assigned LDEVs than with the available conventional cars. If drivers were able to choose their preferred vehicles, the majority of them would favor LDEVs. We detect statistically significant patterns of latent measures affecting perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of LDEVs. While this paper focuses on German delivery service employees, the methodology presented here could easily be applied to any enterprise in the growing logistics sector electrifying its car fleet. Hence, our contributions are valuable for transportation research, and more specifically, to all potential commercial EV drivers, e.g., our insights might be relevant for approximately 500,400 drivers employed in the German logistics sector alone.
R40|Break-even distance estimation between combined and unimodal road freight transport|The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of distance on choosing between combined and unimodal road transport. In doing so, the break-even distances between the two modes are calculated. The calculation relies on a Monte Carlo simulation that takes account of a randomly generated shipper and receiver?s locations in two separated market areas, independently of a certain transport corridor. Methodically, the ideas and elements of the transport system analytical modelling found in the literature are used. The results confirm the importance of distance on the mode choice and show there is not only one but in fact many break-even distances between the two modes. They vary considerably depending on different travel plans, and shipper/receiver locations within market areas. Despite the inevitable assumptions made in such general analysis, the results reveal combined transport can provide a good alternative to unimodal road transport even over relatively very short distances if the drayage costs are not too high. We believe the research helps better understand competitiveness in the freight transport sector and may also be useful for policy- and other decision-makers seeking to improve their evaluation of the opportunities and competitiveness of combined transport. Nevertheless that could lead to a more sustainable transport system.
R40|Internalization of External Costs and its Impact on Modal Split in the Freight Transport Market|The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of internalization of external costs on modal split in the freight transport market. It is expected that the internalization of transport externalities will contribute to the redistribution of freight volumes in favor of non-road transport modes, especially railway. To answer this expectation, the break-even distances between intermodal rail-road and unimodal road are calculated. The calculation is based on the costs, as the most important factor that influences the mode choice in the freight transport market. In order to establish as general as possible a model, independent of a certain transport corridors, the model relies on a Monte Carlo simulation that takes account of a randomly generated shipper and receiver?s locations in two separated market areas. The model consists of a submodule for calculating drayage distances and costs in a circular market area and another submodule for calculating the distances and costs between two separated market areas, taking different distance metrics into account. The results confirm the importance of internalization of external costs on the mode choice and its contribution to the more sustainable transport system. Additionally, the results show there is not only one but, in fact, many break-even distances between the two modes. They vary considerably depending on different travel plans, and shipper/receiver locations within market areas. Despite the inevitable assumptions made in such general analysis, the results reveal that intermodal rail-road transport can provide a good alternative to unimodal road transport, even over relatively very short distances if the drayage costs are not too high and if external cost of transport are included in the price of all transport modes. We believe the research helps better understand competitiveness in the freight transport sector and may also be useful for policy- and other decision-makers to decide the priority of policy options, such as providing subsidies to stimulate intermodal rail-road transport. Increasing truck rates, e.g., by adding taxes, has been found to be effective policy to increase the intermodal rail-road mode share.
R40|Competition For Versus In the Market of Long-Distance Passenger Rail Services|This paper is aimed at evaluating the net gains and trade-offs at stake in implementing the competition of the rail mode in the long distance passenger market either by means of franchise or by an open access mechanism. We simulate the outcomes of competition in and for the market using a differentiated-products oligopoly model allowing for inter- and intra-modal competition in a long distance passenger market. Specifically we first calibrate the model using data describing high speed lines in France and show that the incumbent railway operator’s strategy does not simply boil down to a short-term profit maximization (e.g., because of existing regulation or limit-pricing strategy). This yields two important results when simulating competition. First, whether it is for or in the market, the opening to competition does not guarantee a decrease in prices in favor of passengers. Second, the effects of opening up to competition for the market are relatively predictable and potentially positive, while those of opening up to competition in the market remain very uncertain.
R40|The Making of the Modern Metropolis: Evidence from London|Modern metropolitan areas involve large concentrations of economic activity and the transport of millions of people each day between their residence and workplace. We use the revolution in transport technology from the invention of steam railways, newly-constructed spatially-disaggregated data for London from 1801-1921, and a quantitative urban model to provide evidence on the role of these commuting flows in supporting such concentrations of economic activity. Steam railways dramatically reduced travel times and permitted the first large-scale separation of workplace and residence. We show that our model is able to account for the observed changes in the organization of economic activity, both qualitatively and quantitatively. In counterfactuals, we find that removing the entire railway network reduces the population and the value of land and buildings in Greater London by 20 percent or more, and brings down commuting into the City of London from more than 370,000 to less than 60,000 workers.
R40|How Large are Road Traffic Externalities in the City? The Highway Tunneling in Maastricht, the Netherlands|Infrastructure projects are increasingly aiming to improve liveability, in particular in urban areas. We analyse a specific case in which an existing highway in an urban area was moved underground in order to improve intercity traffic flows and to reduce traffic externalities. As travel times within the city hardly changed, this allows for a clean identification of the value of traffic externalities. We find that the liveability benefits of such integrated infrastructure are substantial relative to the construction costs. Each halving of distance to the tunneled segment is associated with 3.5% more appreciation in house prices since the start of the project.
R40|Airline Alliances and Service Quality|Convenient scheduling, characterized by adequate flight frequency, is the main quality attribute for airline services. However, the effect of airline alliances on this important dimension of service quality has received almost no attention in the literature. This paper fills this gap by providing such an analysis in a model where flight frequency affects schedule delay and connecting layover time. While an alliance raises service quality when layover time has zero cost, the reverse occurs when layover time is costly. The source of this surprising result is that costly layovers eliminate the additive structure of the full trip price, which consists of the sum of the subfares plus the weighted sum of the reciprocal flight frequencies when layover cost is zero. The paper also shows that nonaligned carriers adjust frequencies to suit passenger preferences in business and leisure markets, while an alliance is less responsive to such preference differences. With hub-airport congestion, greater internalization by allied carriers tends to reduce frequency, but this force is not enough to overturn the positive alliance effect in the low-cost layover case.
R40|The Organization of International Trade|This paper discusses how international trade is organized from export to trans-boundary transport to import. All evidence suggests that the transport sector is independent, may exercise market power and features strong economies of scale. We develop a model of a transport industry that operates under imperfect competition and economies of scale and two generic trade models in which export and import activities are either organized at arm’s length or in a vertical partnership. Using a large dataset of maritime transport costs, tariffs and export prices, we test the model predictions and find that economies of scale beat market power: a decline in the tariff implies a decline in freight rates. Furthermore, our results are consistent only with international trade being organized in vertical partnerships because a tariff increase does not lead to a decrease in export prices.
R40|Communication Costs and the Internal Organization of Multi-Plant Businesses: Evidence from the Impact of the French High-Speed Rail|We document the impact of travel time between affiliates and headquarters of geographically dispersed corporate groups on the management of such business organizations. Theory suggests that the easier circulation of managers might facilitate the transmission of information between production plants and headquarters, thus fostering growth and functional specialization (on production activities) at remote affiliates and decreasing operational costs at the group level. We test these predictions on the population of French corporate groups, using the expansion of the High Speed Rail network as an arguably exogenous shock on internal travel times. Results are most pronounced in the service industries, where information to be transmitted is arguably softer (Petersen and Rajan, 2002): we estimate that HSR induced the creation of one production job for the average affiliate in these industries (against 0.2 job in retail, trade or manufacturing industries), and the shift of around one managerial job from affiliate to HQ. These results are robust to alternative identification strategies addressing the problem of the endogenous placement of the HSR infrastructure (use of high-dimensional fixed effects controlling for local and affiliate-level shocks as in Giroud, 2013 and evidence from un-realized lines as in Donaldson, 2014). At the group level, descriptive regressions suggest that the impact on the operational profit margin is around 0.5 percentage points in most industries.
R40|Evaluating Large Projects when there are Substitutes: Looking for Possible Shortcuts|This paper discusses how to evaluate a large project when there is a substitute. The new large project causes discrete price adjustments in the substitute market. For example, a new high-speed rail may shift the demand curve for flight tickets to the left and reduce their price, in turn shifting the demand curve for train tickets to the left. There are several different ways to handle this complication, and we hopefully provide some guidance how to proceed. In particular, we point at an approach that captures the general equilibrium effects of a considered project in its output market. In theory at least, this approach provides a simple short-cut in cost-benefit analysis of (infrastructure and other) projects that are so large that they have a noticeable impact on equilibrium prices in other markets. A similar shortcut for transport projects that affect time costs is also supplied.
R40|Commuting, Labor, and Housing Market Effects of Mass Transportation: Welfare and Identification|REVISED MARCH 2019 This paper studies the effects of Los Angeles Metro Rail on the spatial distribution of people and prices. Using a panel of bilateral commuting flows, I estimate a quantitative spatial general equilibrium model to quantify the welfare benefits of urban rail transit and distinguish the benefits of reduced commuting frictions from other channels. The subway causes a 7%-13% increase in commuting between pairs of connected tracts; I select plausible control pairs using proposed subway and historical streetcar lines to identify this effect. The structural parameters of the model are also estimated and are identified using a novel strategy that interacts tract-specific labor demand shocks with the spatial configuration of the city. These parameters indicate people are relatively unresponsive to changes in local prices and characteristics, implying that the commuting response corresponds to a large utility gain. The welfare benefits by 2000 are significant: LA Metro Rail increases aggregate welfare by $246 million annually. However, these benefits are only about one-third of annualized costs. While benefits did not outweigh costs by 2000, I employ more recent data to show that there are dynamic effects: Commuting continues to increase between connected locations.
R40|Distance and Decline: The Case of Petersburg, Virginia|Petersburg, Virginia, prospered over two centuries as a center of production and trade. However, the city experienced economic difficulties beginning in the 1980s as a large number of layoffs at production plants in the area coincided with an erosion of retail trade in the city. Prolonged economic decline followed. In contrast, somewhat similar shocks in other moderate-sized cities in Virginia were followed by gradual economic recovery. We examine these differing outcomes and offer an explanation that hinges on the proximity of Petersburg to its larger neighbor, the greater Richmond area. We find evidence suggesting that after the job declines, higher-skilled residents in Petersburg initially commuted to jobs nearer to Richmond, later relocating from Petersburg toward Richmond--an option not readily available in the other Virginia cities considered. We suggest that, as a result, Petersburg suffered a sharp decline in tax revenues and that municipal costs could not be proportionately scaled down, leading to severe fiscal stress.
R40|What Goes Around Comes Around: Export-Enhancing Effects of Import- Tariff Reductions|In international trade, transportation requires a round trip for which a transport firm has to commit to the shipping capacity to meet the maximum shipping volume. This may cause the â€œbackhaul problem.â€ Trade theory suggests that facing the problem, transport firms with market power adjust their freight rates strategically when import tariffs change. As a consequence, a country reducing its import tariffs may experience an increase in exports as well as imports. Using worldwide data during 2000-2007, we find evidence that supports these predictions. These findings indicate a new mechanism through which import-tariff reductions lead to export expansions.
R40|The efficient use of infrastructure – is Sweden pricing traffic on its roads, railways, waters and airways at marginal costs?|This review summarizes recent information about the marginal costs for using Sweden’s infrastructure and the relationship between the sum of marginal costs and charges for each mode. It is demonstrated that the tax on petrol used by private cars is higher than the marginal costs for emissions, accident risk and road wear and tear. The diesel tax is, on the other hand, not sufficient for internalization of heavy vehicles’ externalities. Neither trains nor aircraft or ships pay for their marginal costs. For railways, this confirms previous observations that Swedish track user charges are low in an international context. Except for a low level of charges, several examples are given of the strong motives for differentiation of charges in time and geography. The rapid technical development makes the cost motive for not differentiating the charges increasingly irrelevant.
R40|Quantifying errors in travel time and cost by latent variables|Travel time and travel cost are key variables for explaining travel behaviour and deriving the value of time. However, a general problem in transport modelling is that these variables are subject to measurement errors in transport network models. In this paper we show how to assess the magnitude of the measurement errors in travel time and travel cost by latent variables, in a large-scale travel demand model. The case study for Stockholm commuters shows that assuming multiplicative measurement errors for travel time and cost result in a better fit than additive ones; however, when measurement errors are modelled, the estimated time and cost parameters are robust to the modelling assumptions. Moreover, our results suggest that measurement errors in our dataset are larger for the travel cost than for the travel time, and that measurement errors are larger in self-reported travel time than software-calculated travel time for car-driver and car-passenger, and of similar magnitude for public transport. Among self-reported travel times, car-passenger has the largest errors, followed by car-driver and public transport, and for the software-calculated times, public transport exhibits larger errors than car. These errors, if not corrected, lead to biases in measures derived from the models, such as elasticity and values of travel time.
R40|Effects of driverless vehicles: A review of simulations|The development of driverless vehicles is fast, and the technology has the potential to significantly affect the transport system, society and environment. However, there are still many open questions regarding what this development will look like and there are several counteracting forces. This paper addresses the effects of driverless vehicles by performing a literature review of twenty papers that use simulation to model effects of driverless vehicles. By combing and analysing the results from these simulation studies, an overall picture of the effects of driverless vehicles is presented. The paper shows that focus in existing literature has been on effects of driverless taxi applications in urban areas. Some parameters, such as trip cost and waiting time, show small variations between the reviewed papers. Other parameters, such as vehicle kilometres travelled (VKT), show larger variations and depend heavily on the assumptions concerning value of time and level of sharing. In general, increases in VKT are predicted for most applications. Ride sharing has the potential to reduce VKT, and thereby energy consumption and congestion, but the analysis indicates that a sufficient level of ride sharing to reduce VKT will not be achieved without incentives or regulations. Furthermore, the VKT of driverless vehicles is unevenly distributed from a time and space perspective, with larger increases in VKT during peak hours than in off-peak, and in the suburbs compared to city centres. The reviewed papers provide a first prediction of factors such as waiting time, VKT and trip cost, in particular for urban areas and for schemes where there is one service provider present. To get a deeper understanding of the effects of driverless vehicles, aspects such as local spatial considerations, e.g. at pick-up stations, and more complex schemes with competition between service providers should be studied. Furthermore, there is a need for sensitivity analyses regarding travel demand.
R40|Dieselization in Sweden - blessing or curse?|In this paper we discuss, based on research on the external cost of air pollution, if diesel as a fuel in the transport sector should be encouraged or discouraged in Swedish environmental policy. There are two main reasons for posing this question. The first is the international context where the use of diesel is generally considered to be a bad, due to its negative health effects. The second is the Swedish context with an ambitious vision for a fossil free vehicle fleet in 2030 where the use of diesel produced from forestry residues could be part of the solution. In recent years the use of diesel cars has been encouraged by various policy measures, for example a subsidy based on assessments of emissions for CO2 per kilometer. Is this a policy that should be continued or abandoned? In this paper we focus on the health impacts and our conclusion is that dieselization is more a blessing than a curse. The reason is that Sweden is a sparsely populated country and therefore the health costs of emissions from road transport are low by international standards.
R40|The precautionary principle and regulatory impact assessment: on the need for initial screening of hazards in regulatory work with examples from transport|To achieve effective regulation, the OECD and the European Commission recommend the use of regulatory impact assessment (RIA). The full RIA process has however not been implemented in Sweden. There is for example a lack of established practices at the national level for the analysis of risk in regulatory work. Instead, soft law in the form of management by objective systems is guiding transport and environmental policy. These systems were introduced in the end of the 1990s following the international discussion on the precautionary principle. According to findings in other countries, policy making based on the precautionary principle may result in unexpected and unwanted consequences and therefore, based on a literature review and an assessment of current practices in transport regulation in Sweden, we suggest the use of an initial screening of hazards in regulatory work. We also apply the proposed method to four transport related case studies to illustrate how an initial assessment can provide the basis for an informed discussion on what hazards to counteract with regulation and on what grounds.
R40|Estimating interaction delay in bicycle traffic from point measurements|Planning for bicycle traffic is getting increasingly popular in cities, often motivated by that it is beneficial for the environment and the public health, and that it is a space efficient mode of transport. However, research on bicycle traffic has traditionally focused mainly on safety and mode choice, and less on traffic engineering topics such as investigating travel times, delays, and capacities. This study contributes to filling this gap by presenting a general method to estimate a volume -- delay function for bicycle traffic based on point measurements of passage time, speed, and lateral position, and, using estimates of the value of time in bicycle traffic, estimating the marginal cost of the interaction delay. The proposed method is based on an established method to estimate the distribution of desired speeds, and extends this to estimate the delay of the observed cyclists. The method is demonstrated using a data set from a bridge in Stockholm, Sweden, showing that there is significant interaction delay and associated cost even for relatively modest volumes, implying that interaction delay and its cost should be considered when planning for bicycle traffic.
R40|Interaction Delay and Marginal Cost in Swedish Bicycle Traffic|We apply the method presented by Johansson (2018) to estimate a volume delay function and marginal cost for bicycle traffic on cycling paths separated from motorized traffic based on point measurements of speed and lateral positions from seven sites in Sweden. The results indicate that a quadratic volume – delay function fits the data well in the observed range of volumes, and that there are significant delays already at volumes far below the capacity due to the heterogeneity of the desired speed over the population. The total marginal cost of delay per unit flow is estimated to €9×10-5 h/km.
R40|Externa kostnader för luftföroreningar från transporter i olika delar av Sverige Sammanfattning och slutsatser från arbetet med luftkvalitet i SAMKOST|Syftet med denna studie har varit att genom några beräkningsexempel klargöra hur de externa kostnaderna för luftföroreningar varierar mellan transportslag och geografi i Sverige, samt att tydliggöra vilka faktorer som ligger bakom dessa skillnader. Syftet är också att sätta in dessa resultat i en internationell kontext för att beskriva hur den svenska situationen förhåller sig till den som råder i andra länder både när det gäller miljöproblemen som orsakas av utsläpp till luft men också arbetet med att utforma miljöarbetet baserat på denna kunskap. Det senare är viktigt för att kunna föra en diskussion om hur Sverige påverkas av och kan bidra till internationellt luftvårdsarbete, framförallt inom EU eftersom den största påverkan av utsläpp från transportsektorn i Sverige sker inom Europa. Vi har i arbetet med SAMKOST studerat effekter på såväl lokal som regional nivå utifrån den metodik som tillämpas inom EU där hälsoeffekter utvärderas baserat på marginella haltförändringar i det som kallas urban eller regional bakgrund. De underlag som tagits fram i SAMKOST-projekten skiljer sig därför från flertalet svenska studier som oftast bedömer effekterna av den totala halten utan hänsyn till källa eller åtgärd. De modelleringar som är grunden för beräkningarna har genomförts av SMHI vilket säkerställer att resultaten är jämförbara mellan de olika transportslagen.
R40|Parking, transit and traffic: Evidence from SFpark|Demand-responsive parking pricing programs, in which parking is priced based upon occupancy, are increasingly being used in cities experiencing rapid growth as a way to optimize parking. Despite the potential of demand-responsive parking in minimizing parking-related externalities, there are few empirical estimates regarding the effects of parking management policies, particularly around transit usage and traffics flow. We use data from SFpark, a demand-responsive on-street parking pricing program for the city of San Francisco, along with a rich micro data-set on transit bus usage from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. Using a difference-in-difference strategy, we find that SFpark is associated with sizeable increases in transit bus usage of about 21 and reductions in lane occupancy of 5 percentage points per census block. Our welfare computations suggest economic benefits of $36 million over the duration of the program (2011-2013) resulting from avoided pollution due to increased transit usage and from reduced congestion. These benefits easily exceed the nominal costs of the program. Our results not only suggest that demand-responsive pricing programs achieve their stated goals, but also mitigate many traffic-related externalities, yielding significant welfare benefits.
R40|Evaluating Large Projects when there are Substitutes: Looking for Possible Shortcuts|This paper discusses how to evaluate a large project when there is a substitute. The new large project causes discrete price adjustments in the substitute market. For example, a new high-speed rail may shift the demand curve for flight tickets to the left and reduce their price, in turn shifting the demand curve for train tickets to the left. There are several different ways to handle this complication, and we hopefully provide some guidance how to proceed. In particular, we point at an approach that captures the general equilibrium effects of a considered project in its output market. In theory at least, this approach provides a simple shortcut in cost–benefit analysis of (infrastructure and other) projects that are so large that they have a noticeable impact on equilibrium prices in other markets. A similar shortcut for transport projects that affect time costs is also supplied.
R40|The role of infrastructure efficiency in economic development – the case of underused highways in Europe|In this paper, we establish a two way causality between the phenomenon of the infrastructure which is underused (the so called “white elephant case”) and the aggregate productivity level (TFP) of the economy. On the one hand, the fact that a transport infrastructure is not used so much as it could be is itself a cause of low TFP, because it represents a low productivity for an important item of social capital. On the other hand, low aggregate productivity makes firms strategies founded on large scale of production and exports more risky, given the possibility that the political decision to build the required transport infrastructure may never be taken.
R40|Commuting Time and Sick-Day Absence of US Workers|This paper analyzes the relationship between commuting time and sick-day absence of US workers. Using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics for the years 2011, 2013, and 2015, we find that a 1% increase in the daily commute of male workers is associated with an increase of around 0.018% in sick-day absences per year. In the case of women, the relationship is not significant. These results hold after controlling for individual fixed effects and socio-demographic characteristics, changes in jobs and places of residence, and differences in the self-reported health status of workers. By determining how commuting time is related to sickness absenteeism, we shed light on the relationship between commuting behavior and workers' health-related outcomes, measured by their labour supply.
R40|Connecting to Economic Opportunity? The Role of Public Transport in Promoting Women's Employment in Lima|Limited access to safe transportation is one of the greatest challenges to labor force participation faced by women in developing countries. This paper quantifies the causal impacts of improved urban transport systems in women´s employment outcomes, looking at Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and elevated light rail investments in the metropolitan region of Lima, Perú. We find large gains in employment and earnings per hour among women, and not for men, due to these investments. Most of the gains arise on the extensive margin, with more women being employed, but employment does not appear to be of higher quality than that for comparison groups. We find also evidence of an increase in the use of public transport. Results are robust to alternative specifications and we do not find evidence that they are driven by neighborhood composition changes. Overall, these findings suggest that infrastructure investments that make it more convenient and safer for women to use public transport can generate important labor market impacts for women who reside in the area of influence of the improved infrastructure.
R40|The structure of coasting trade in British India from 1905 to 1931|During the early 20th century, South Asia experienced its most regionally integrated period in history, and under British rule, port cities were well connected via coasting trade. This paper examines the trade structure within British India between 1905 to 1931 and shows how South Asia was regionally integrated both through quantitative measures and various maps.
R40|Death by Pokémon GO: The Economic and Human Cost of Using Apps While Driving|Using police accident reports for Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and exploiting the introduction of the augmented reality game Pokémon GO as a natural experiment, we document a disproportionate increase in crashes and associated vehicular damage, injuries, and fatalities in the vicinity of locations where users can play the game while driving. We estimate the incremental county-wide cost of users playing Pokémon GO while driving to be in the range of $5.2 to $25.5 million over the 148 days following the introduction of the game. Extrapolating these estimates to nation-wide levels yields a total ranging from $2.0 to $7.3 billion.
R40|The effect of infrastructure on worker mobility: evidence from high-speed rail expansion in Germany|We use the expansion of the high-speed rail (HSR) network in Germany as a natural experiment to examine the causal effect of reductions in commuting time between regions on the commuting decisions of workers and their choices regarding where to live and where to work. We exploit three key features in this setting: (i) investment in HSR has, in some cases dramatically, reduced travel times between regions, (ii) several small towns were connected to the HSR network only for political reasons, and (iii) high-speed trains have left the transportation of goods unaffected. Combining novel information on train schedules and the opening of HSR stations with panel data on all workers in Germany, we show that a reduction in travel time by 1% raises the number of commuters between regions by 0.25%. This effect is mainly driven by workers changing jobs to smaller cities while keeping their place of residence in larger ones. Our findings support the notion that benefits from infrastructure investments accrue in particular to peripheral regions, which gain access to a large pool of qualified workers with a preference for urban life. We find that the introduction of high-speed trains led to a modal shift toward rail transportation in particular on medium distances between 150 and 400 km.
R40|Accessibility, Equity, and the Journey-to-Work|Inequality in transport provision is an area of growing concern among transport professionals, as it results in low-income individuals travelling at lower speeds while covering smaller distances. Accessibility, the ease of reaching destinations, may hold the key in correcting these inequalities through providing a means to evaluate land use and transport interventions. This article examines the relationship between accessibility and commuting duration for low-income individuals, compared to the general population, in three major Canadian metropolitan regions, Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver using multilevel mixed effects statistical models for car and public transport commuters separately. Accessibility measures are generated for jobs and workers both at the origin (home) and the destination (place of work) to account for the impact of competing labor and firms. Our models show that the impacts of accessibility on commuting duration are present and stronger for low-income individuals than for the general population, and the differences in impact are more visible for public transport commuters. The results suggest that low-income individuals have more to gain (in terms of reduced commute time) from increased accessibility to low-income jobs at the origin and to workers at the destination. Similarly, they also have more to lose from increased accessibility to low-income workers at the origin and to low- income jobs at the destination, which are proxies for increased competition. Policies targeting improvements in accessibility to jobs, especially low-income ones, by car and public transport while managing the presence of competition can serve to bridge the inequality gap that exists in commuting behavior.
R40|Disparity of Access: Variations in Transit Service by Race, Ethnicity, Income, and Auto Availability|This study explores the relationship between transit-based job accessibility and minority races and ethnicities, low- and middle-income households, and carless households at the block group level for the 50 largest by population metropolitan regions in the United States. A log-linear regression model is used to identify inequities in transit-based job accessibility across the US using data collected from the American Community Survey, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Smart Location Database, and the Access Across America database. The intra-metropolitan analyses reveal that accessibility is unevenly distributed across block groups that have different densities of race and levels of income. The differences in accessibility are especially apparent where there are denser pockets with higher percentages of African Americans, Hispanics, low-income households, and zero-car households. The inter-metropolitan analyses show that accessibility is unevenly distributed across metropolitan regions across the US when considering various sociodemographic populations. Different metropolitan regions provide different levels of accessibility for all investigated sociodemographic categories, whether considering racial minorities, levels of income, or car ownership. The results may inform recommendations for equitable transport planning and policy-making.
R40|Dockless in Sydney: The Rise and Decline of Bikesharing in Australia|In mid-2017, dockless, (or stationless) bikesharing appeared on the streets of Sydney. The birth of dockless bikesharing, its evolution as well as its consequences, and use habits are studied with review of policies and field investigations. It is found that bicycle use in Sydney is less than hoped for, vandalism is high, regulations unfavourable, and thus, the conditions for successful bikesharing are not met.
R40|Link-based Internal and Full Cost Analysis|This paper develops a link-based full cost model, which identifies the key cost components of travel, including both internal and external versions of cost, and gives a link-based cost estimate. The key cost components for travelers are categorized as time cost, emission cost, crash cost, user monetary cost, and infrastructure cost. Selecting the Minneapolis - St. Paul (Twin Cities) Metropolitan region as the study area, the estimates show that the average full cost of travel is $0.68/veh-km, in which the time and user monetary costs account for approximately 85% of the total. Except for the infrastructure cost, highways are more cost-effective than other surface roadways considering all the other cost components, as well as the internal and full costs.
R40|Travel Cost and Dropout from Secondary Schools in Nepal|The study relates the association between travel time to the lower secondary and secondary public schools of Nepal and the dropout grade before leaving secondary school using an ordered logit model. It is shown that as the travel time to the school increases, students are more likely to dropout from the school system in earlier grades. The results from this study will be useful to policymakers, especially from developing countries, as it places transport in the context of education.
R40|Measuring polycentricity via network flows, spatial interaction, and percolation|Polycentricity is most commonly measured by location-based metrics (e.g. employment density or total number of workers, above a threshold, used to count the number of centres). While these metrics are good indicators of location ‘centricity’, the results are sensitive to threshold-choice. We consider here the alternate idea that a centre’s status depends on which other locations it is con- nected to in terms of trip inflows and outflows: this is inherently a network rather than a location idea. A set of flow and network-based centricity metrics for measuring metropolitan area poly- centricity using Journey-To-Work (JTW) data are presented: (a) trip-based, (b) density-based, and, (c) accessibility-based. Using these measures, polycentricity is computed and rank-centricity distributions are plotted to test whether these distributions follow Zipf-like or Chirstaller-like distributions. Further, a percolation theory framework is proposed for the full origin-destination (OD) matrix, where trip flows are used as a thresholding parameter to count the number of sub-centres. It is found that trip flows prove to be an effective measure to count and hierarchically organise metropolitan area sub-centres, and provide one way of dealing with the arbitrariness of defining a threshold on numbers of employed persons, employment density, or centricities to count sub-centres. These measures demonstrated on data from the Greater Sydney region show that the trip flow-based threshold and network centricities help to characterize polycentricity more robustly than the traditional number or density-based thresholds alone and provide unexpected insights into the connections between land use, transport, and urban structure.
R40|I only get some satisfaction: Introducing satisfaction into measures of accessibility|Improving accessibility is a goal pursued by many metropolitan regions to address a variety of objectives. Accessibility, or the ease of reaching destinations, is traditionally measured using observed travel time and has of yet not accounted for user satisfaction with these travel times. As trip satisfaction is a major component of the underlying psychology of travel, we introduce satisfaction into accessibility measures and demonstrate its viability for future use. To do so, we generate a new satisfaction-based measure of accessibility where the impedance functions are determined from the travel time data of satisfying trips gathered from the 2017/2018 McGill Transport Survey. This satisfaction-based measure is used to calculate accessibility to jobs by four modes (public transport, car, walking, and cycling) in the Montreal metropolitan region, with the results then compared to a standard gravity-based measure of accessibility. We then offer a dissatisfaction index where we combine the ratio between satisfaction-based and gravity-based accessibility measures with mode share data. This index highlights areas with potentially high proportions of dissatisfied commuters and where interventions for each mode could have the highest impacts on the quality of life of a given mode commuter. Such analysis is then combined with a vulnerability index to show the value of this measure in setting priorities for vulnerable groups. The study demonstrates the importance of including satisfaction in accessibility measures and allows for a more nuanced interpretation of the ease of access by researchers, planners, and policy-makers.
R40|Walking and Talking: The Effect of Smartphone Use and Group Conversation on Pedestrian Speed|By testing the walking speed of groups of pedestrians and of phone users, followers of groups and of phone users, and of people uninfluenced by phone users and groups, from different sites it could been seen that groups of people and phone users, and often followers of phone users, walk significantly slower than people uninfluenced by phone. In a narrow path people in groups and phone users not only slow themselves down but also slow the people behind. The rise of the smartphone correlates with a reduction in walking speed.
R40|The impact of a new airport on international tourism: the case of Ragusa (Sicily)|Airports play a crucial role in connecting places and boosting local economic development; notwithstanding this, empirical evidence on the subject is relatively limited. This paper estimates the impact of a new airport in Ragusa, in southeastern Sicily, on international tourism flows in the area, using a synthetic control approach. Connecting by air a relatively peripheral and isolated area of Sicily with a high tourism potential has made it possible to increase by about one fifth the number of nights spent by foreign tourists (for over 5,100 additional nights), generating €434 thousand more in tourist expenditure per month.
R40|Employer-paid parking, mode choice, and suburbanization|This paper constructs a theoretical model that facilitates analysis of the effects of employer-paid parking on mode choice, road investment and suburbanization. The model simplifies urban space by dividing it into two zones (islands), center and suburbs, which are connected by a congested road and a public-transit line. Each road commuter requires an allotment of CBD land for parking, and because the central zone’s area is fixed, parking land reduces the amount available for central residences and CBD production. The model characterizes optimal resource allocation from the perspective of a social planner. The planning solution can be decentralized, which requires employee- rather than employer-paid parking, congestion tolls, and a tax (subsidy) to offset the road capacity deficit (surplus). The analysis then considers the effect of switching to employer-paid parking, with the burden of parking costs shifting from road users to employers, thus reducing the wage for all workers. This switch inefficiently increases road usage and capacity investment, while spurring an inefficient increase in suburbanization.
R40|Institutional Architecture for Financing Pan-Asian Infrastructure Connectivity|Asia, particularly its major economies has witnessed slower growth in recent years. To make Asia more economically sustainable and resilient against external shocks to recover from the falling growth, most regional economies need to rebalance their export-oriented (mostly to advanced economies) production and growth towards Asian markets and regional demand, and trade-driven growth through increased intraregional infrastructure connectivity and regional economic integration. In 1992, a pan-Asian transport connectivity was initiated through, Asian Highway Network and Trans-Asian Railways Network. In 2015, an ambitious pan-Asian connectivity initiative, namely “One Belt, One Road” (ancient silk road) initiative has been proposed. This initiative plans to create an economic zone covering Asia, Europe and Africa. To successfully promote and finance greater physical connectivity, at the pan-Asian, sub-regional and national levels, Asia will require a strong and appropriate institutional framework for effective coordination, cooperation and collaboration among national, subregional, and region-wide institutions as well as other stakeholders. This paper discusses the prospects and challenges facing Asian connectivity as well as infrastructure financing needs in Asia. It also examines the nature and characteristics of existing and new institutions and the emerging role of regional and international institutions for enhancing Asian connectivity. Lastly, it proposes an institutional architecture consisting of new “Asian Infrastructure Coordination Facility (AICF)” involving major stakeholders for building a seamless pan-Asian connectivity through bilateral, regional and international cooperation, partnership and collaboration in infrastructure development.
R40|A tale of two tails: Commuting and the fuel price response in driving|Pricing greenhouse gases is widely understood as the most efficient approach for mitigating climate change, yet distributional effects hamper political acceptance. These distributional effects are especially important in transport, the fastest growing sector for greenhouse gas emissions. Using rich data covering the entire population of vehicles and households in Denmark, this study uncovers an important feature of driving demand: two groups of much more responsive households in the lower and upper tails of the work distance distribution. We further estimate the causal effect of public transport–a critical determinant of the upper tail–and show how public transport access can both reconcile differences in fuel price elasticities between the United States and Europe, and considerably influence the distributional effects of fuel pricing.
R40|Out-of-town Home Buyers and City Welfare|The major cities of the world have attracted a flurry of interest from out-of-town (OOT) home buyers. Such capital inflows in local real estate have implications for affordability through their effects on prices and rents, but also for construction, local labor markets, the spatial distribution of residents, and ultimately economic welfare. We develop a spatial equilibrium model of a city that features heterogeneous households that make optimal decisions on consumption, savings, labor supply, tenure status, and location. The model generates realistic wealth accumulation and home ownership patterns over the life-cycle and in the cross-section. An inflow of OOT real estate buyers pushes up prices, rents, and wages. It increases the concentration of young, high-productivity, and wealthy households in the city center (gentrification). When OOT investors buy 10% of the housing stock, city welfare goes down by 0.3% of permanent consumption levels. The average renter suffers a large welfare loss while the average owner gains modestly. We adapt the model to the New York metro area, obtain detailed data on OOT purchases, and find that the observed increase in OOT purchases is associated with a 0.1% welfare loss.
R40|The making of a national currency. Spatial transaction costs and money market integration in Spain (1825-1874)|This article analyses the integration of the Spanish money market in the 19th century. We use a Band-TAR model of prices in Madrid of bills of exchange on 9 Spanish cities to measure convergence and efficiency in the market between 1825 and 1875. While price gaps between cities were significantly reduced during the period, no progress took place in efficiency. We suggest that increasing convergence was associated to the reduction in transaction costs, which started before the railways through improvements in roads and postal services. By contrast, increases in efficiency were prevented by a very restrictive regulation of arbitrage.
R40|Effets des infrastructures de transport sur le niveau et la localisation des activités économiques|Cet article fait le point sur la littérature récente examinant le lien entre infrastructures de transport et niveau et localisation des activités économiques. La théorie économique montre qu’en présence de rendements croissants, la baisse des coûts de transfert favorise la concentration, puis au‐delà d’un certain seuil, la re- dispersion spatiale des activités. Les études empiriques en forme réduite confirment l’existence d’effets hétérogènes en fonction des caractéristiques des territoires et des secteurs. Elles montrent également dans certains cas l’existence d’effets de déplacements et d’irréversibilité. Les travaux en équilibre général en sont encore à leurs débuts; le choix du modèle semble déterminant pour la nature des dynamiques spatiales prédites. Les avancées académiques récentes permettent une meilleure prise en compte dans l’évaluation socio‐économique des infrastructures de transport des effets de celles‐ci sur l’efficacité productive.
R40|Commuting and Sickness Absence|Commuting is an important and growing component of workers daily life and demands a lot of time. Given the importance of commuting, it is crucial to understand its consequences for different aspects of individual labour supply. In this paper, we focus on the causal effect of commuting on sickness absence from work using German panel data. According to theory, the effect of commuting on the number of workers absence days may be positive or negative. Empirical tests of this effect are not standard, due to reverse causation and lack of good control variables. To address reverse causation, estimates of commuting on absenteeism are derived using changes in commuting distance for workers who stay at the same workplace and who have the same residence during the period of observation. Keeping the workers employer and residence constant allows us to address endogeneity of commuting distance. Our results show that employees, who commute long distances (more than 50 kilometres), are absent more often than comparable employees with shorter commutes.
R40|Roads, exports and employment: Evidence from a developing country|Domestic road programs are often justified on the basis of their presumed positive effects on firms' exports and accordingly on firms' employment. In this paper we evaluate this policy claim for Peru, a developing country whose regions were exposed to an asymmetric infrastructure shock. In so doing, we take advantage of detailed geo-referenced data on firm-level trade for the period 2003–2010 as well as on recent and historical road infrastructure. In particular, to identify the impacts of interest, we first exploit the dimensions of this dataset to account for regional-sectoral and even firm-level confounding factors through extensive sets of fixed effects. In addition, we conduct placebo exercises and carry out instrumental variable estimations whereby we instrument recent changes in the road network with the pre-Columbian Inca road network. Estimates concur in suggesting that improvements in transport infrastructure had a significant positive impact on firms' exports and thereby on firms' job growth.
R40|Locomotives of local growth: The short- and long-term impact of railroads in Sweden|This paper studies the impact of railroads on 150years of urban growth in Sweden, identifying the short- and long-term effects of a first wave of railroad construction. Difference-in-differences and instrumental variable estimates show that towns that gained access experienced substantial relative increases in population, though such growth mainly reflected a relocation of economic activity. Over the twentieth century, we find little evidence of convergence in town populations, despite the railroad network expanding further to connect nearly all towns. Evidence on historical investments and present-day factors is consistent with the idea that the transitory shock of the first railroads gave rise to path dependence in the location of economic activity.
R40|Transport-mode competition in intra-national trade: An empirical investigation for the Spanish case|Trade within and between countries can take place by alternative transport modes. Economic and logistical complexity is fostering multimodality as well as transport-mode competition. The international trade literature has given little attention to this issue. The aim of this paper is to analyze transport-mode competition in inter-provincial deliveries within Spain. To this end, we use a detailed dataset with fifty inter-provincial, industry-specific flows by four transport modes (road, train, ship and aircraft). We then feed this dataset into various specifications of a gravity model that incorporates cross-sectional dependence attributable to unobservable factors directly associated with the presence of transport-mode competition schemes. In considering alternative distance segments, we also test for competition effects between road and the other three modes.
R40|Should I go by bus? The liberalization of the long-distance bus industry in France|The opening up of the French long-distance bus industry is one of the outcomes of the Loi Macron. In this study, we build a unique data set of several representative bus routes and show that the effects of the liberalization have been encouraging in terms of fares, new entry, higher frequency, and higher quality. First, with regard to international routes that used to be under cabotage, we find that relaxing quantitative restrictions has led to the expected results on the Lyon–Torino and Paris–London routes. Second, with regard to domestic routes newly created from the Loi Macron, mostly all procompetitive expected variations in the variables have been observed, except for fares. Indeed, we show that bus operators used an initial aggressive pricing strategy to induce demand for the new services and then increased fares once customers became accustomed with the service.
R40|Productivity growth in urban freight transport: An index number approach|Improvement of operational efficiency is a common goal of most governmental freight transport policies. Productivity and efficiency analysis consequently provides a sound knowledge base. This paper illustrates how axiomatic production theory can be applied to model road freight transport, and proposes a logistics efficiency measure as the function representation. Based thereon, a logistics productivity index that decomposes into technical, cargo mix, vehicle capacity, and efficiency changes is established to determine the rate and drivers of growth. Emphasizing urban logistics, the paper discusses the limited access to reliable data at the micro level and illustrates how local or regional freight transport can be evaluated applying pseudo panel techniques to national freight surveys. Correspondingly, the theoretical productivity index is implemented on a pseudo panel covering the 24 largest cities in Norway between 2008 and 2012, when 12 of them entered a collaboration agreement to promote efficient transport. The results indicate a modest 0.6% average productivity growth. Efficiency change is the key driver of growth, countered by technical stagnation and regress. Negative productivity growth is expected if this trend continues. Moreover, the results do not reveal productivity gains from urban agglomeration or membership of the collaboration agreement, suggesting that prevailing transport and land use policies have so far been unable to foster productivity growth in urban freight transport.
R40|Indivisibilities in Distribution|This paper develops and estimates a model of indivisibilities in shipping and economies of scale in consolidation. It uses highly detailed data on imports where it is possible to observe the contents of individual containers. In the model, ﬁrms are able to adapt to indivisibility constraints by using consolidation strategies and by making adjustments to shipment size. The ﬁrm determines the optimal number of domestic ports to use, taking into account that adding more ports lowers inland freight cost, at the expense of a higher indivisibility cost. The estimated model is able to roughly account for Walmart’s port choice behavior. The model estimates are used to evaluate how mergers or dissolutions of ﬁrms or countries, and changes in variety, affect indivisibility costs and inland freight costs.
R40|Cost-benefit analysis of transport improvements in the presence of spillovers, matching and an income tax|This paper addresses the problem of measuring the welfare benefits of a transport improvement. We formulate and analyze a rich spatial model that allows for spillovers, matching and income tax, in a setting with multiple work and residential locations and very general worker heterogeneity. The conventional consumer surplus captures part of the benefits and is calculated based on predictions of changes in travel demand and transport costs. The issue is to determine which so-called wider impacts to add to this. We find that adding the change in total output as a wider impact leads to double-counting of benefits. The output change due to spillovers should be added, while the output change due to matching is already partly included in the consumer surplus. These results are useful for applied cost-benefit analysis of transport policies.
R40|Public transport: one mode or several?|This paper develops a methodology for testing and implementing differences in preferences for a set of public transport modes, relating to observed and unobserved attributes, in state-of-practice large-scale travel demand models. Results of a case study for commuters in the Stockholm public transport system suggest that there are preference differences among public transport modes, and that they are captured by unobserved attributes. Surprisingly, we found no evidence for differences proportional to the in-vehicle time, suggesting that characteristics of in-vehicle time in different public transport modes, such as comfort, are valued equally by the travellers. We also found that the value of time is higher for auxiliary modes than for the main mode, and that the unobserved preference for metro is highest and the preference for light rail lowest.
R40|The city as a driver of new mobility patterns, cycling and gender equality: travel behaviour trends in Stockholm 1985-2015|We analyse changes in individual travel behaviour in Stockholm County over 30 years, using three large cross-sectional travel survey data sets. We show how travel patterns diverge over time between city, suburban and rural residents. We relate these diverging travel patterns to changes in the labour market, ICT use and the digital/knowledge economy, land-use and transport policy, increased gender equality, and population size, composition and location.
R40|Recommendation for a new commodity classification for the national freight model Samgods|The objective of this report is to recommend a new commodity classification for the next version of the Swedish national freight model system Samgods. The recommendation is based on i) a comparison of commodity classifications in transport models in other countries, ii) an evaluation of classifications in from the viewpoint of modelling transport demand, iii) how well the classification captures behavioral differences among firms in the freight market and iv) statistical considerations. We recommend the classification to be based on the divisional level of the NST 2007 and to include commodity groups 1-14. We recommend to split up group 1 into one category containing round wood and another containing the rest of the items. We also think it is useful to add a commodity group for air freight by combining fractions from other commodities. In total, our recommendation consists of 16 groups.
R40|Backfiring with backhaul problems: Trade and Industrial Policies with Endogenous Transport Costs|"Trade barriers due to transport costs are as large as those due to tariffs. This paper explicitly incorporates the transport sector into the framework of international oligopoly and studies the effects of trade and industrial policies. Transport firms need to commit to a shipping capacity sufficient for a round trip, with a possible imbalance of shipping volumes in two directions. Because of this ""backhaul problem"", trade restrictions may backfire: domestic import restrictions may also decrease domestic exports, possibly harming domestic firms and benefiting foreign firms. In addition, trade policy in one sector may affect other independent sectors."
R40|Does Commuting Matter to Subjective Well-Being?|How and why commuting contributes to our well-being is of considerableimportance for transportation policy and planning. This paper analyses the relation between commuting and subjective well-being by considering several cognitive (e.g. satisfaction with family life, leisure, income, work, health) and affective (e.g., happiness, anger, worry, sadness) componentsof subjective well-being. Fixed-effects models are estimated with German Socio-Economic Panel data for the period 2007 – 2013. In contrast to previous papers in the literature, according to which commuting is bad for overall life satisfaction, we find no evidence that commuting in general is associated with a lower life satisfaction. Rather, it appears that longer commutes are only related to lower satisfaction with particular life domains, especially family life and leisure time. Time spent on housework, child care as well as physical and leisure activities mediate the association between commuting and well-being.
R40|What drives car use in Europe?|The methodology is based on the results of a recent EU-wide travel survey that maps user preferences and on the application of a Random Forest classification model that explains the interaction of the main variables that affect these choices. The results of the analysis suggest that it is probably too early to assume that car travel demand is close to a peak throughout Europe. It would be more accurate to claim that a plateau has been reached in a few EU Member States with a developed economy, high car ownership rates and slowly changing demographic profiles. Evidence shows that in some of these countries car use has peaked. However, significant growth in car use should be expected in Eastern Europe. The trends concerning the use of passenger cars are certainly not uniform across the EU since each Member State has its own socio-economic conditions and follows a different path as regards car dependency. In addition, some of the indications of changes in trends can be circumstantial or temporary, as for example the impacts that the economic crisis may have on car ownership and use. Others are long term and perhaps not clearly visible yet. The changing structure of the economy, the longer periods of education for the young, the more fragmented and deregulated labour market and the changing cultural values (i.e. the high value of digital connectivity) may be gradually changing the role of the car in the society in the long term, but there is still not sufficient evidence to suggest that they already are having an impact throughout Europe. Part of the impact of the factors analysed here may simply be the result of postponing decisions related to car use. However, even postponement alters the total level of demand, for if one age group now makes fewer trips than it did before, it lowers the overall level of demand. Evidence also shows that the young groups who are now postponing driving a car do not reach the levels of car use in their 30s and 40s that the generation before had. Some who postpone using the car will forever abandon car driving.
R40|Economic Effects of the EU External Aviation Policy|This report investigates the economic effects of EUâ€™s external aviation policy with third countries. In particular, focusing on 27 countries with which the EU has an Air Services Agreement (ASA) of varying degree of liberalization, we assessed changes in fare, flight frequency and capacity utilization. We find that the implementation of the EU external aviation policy results in lower fare levels and higher load factors (capacity utilization). The effect of the policy on frequency, however, is not statistically significant. Our findings suggest that further liberalization can lead to more benefits to consumers.
R40|Potential impacts of liberalisation of the EU-Africa aviation market|Intercontinental air services between Europe and Africa are mainly governed by bilateral agreements negotiated between the individual countries of the EU and the various African governments. This paper provides an overview of the regulatory trends and development of air transport between EU and Africa, focussing on passenger traffic developments over the past five years and discusses the impact of liberalisation between Africa and the EU on the degree of concentration in airport traffic shares. Results indicate a growing role of Dubai and Istanbul and a decreasing role of European hubs as gateways to Africa. While Johannesburg, Cairo, Nairobi and Lagos remain the main international hubs in Africa, regional airport hubs have emerged in Algiers, Dar es Salaam and Casablanca. Liberalisation of EU-African aviation markets is likely to result in the emergence of further African regional hubs.
R40|Comparing access for all: disability-induced accessibility disparity in Lisbon|Abstract It is well known that individual impairments create disparities in the accessibility of individuals to opportunities, lengthening the distances or time needed to reach them or even completely impeding access. However, the accurate calculation and representation of these disparities remain a major challenge for urban and transportation planners. In this paper, we adopt the concept of accessibility disparity, originally applied to measure place accessibility by different modes of transport, to measure and represent the accessibility of individuals with physical disabilities compared to those without disabilities. We use spatial network analysis to calculate spatial connectivity and the accessibility of Lisbon’s city center, revealing what we define as ‘disability-induced accessibility disparity’. Our results reveal not only the locations responsible for reduced accessibility, i.e., barriers and/or deterrents to movement, but also how much any given disparity reduces the accessibility of an individual, allowing the use of this methodology by planners to identify critical areas and to design inclusive public spaces.
R40|Solving a hold-up problem may harm all firms: Downstream R&D and transport-price contracts|This study considers transport-price contracts in a two-country duopoly model with firm-specific carriers. It is well-known that when an upstream firm fails to commit to keeping its transaction (or transport) price after a downstream firm's R&D investment, it causes the hold-up problem and diminishes the incentive for R&D investment. While previous literature emphasizes that the commitment to keep the transaction price is needed to overcome the hold-up problem, we show that this commitment may harm all firms. We also discuss the robustness of our results in cases with R&D spillovers, product differentiation, and non-linear production costs.
R40|Market Structure and State Involvement: Passenger Railways in Europe|Over the past 25 years railways in Europe have experienced substantial changes in terms of legislative measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector. This chapter will provide an overview of the different reform measures and the outcomes to date with particular emphasis on the issues linked to passenger transportation. In particular, the chapter will be structured as follows. Firstly, the background to the reform initiatives will be outlined. Secondly, the specific reform elements will be described. Thirdly, the implementation of the reform measures at country level will be examined in order to identify variation between EU Member States. Subsequently, the outcomes will be examined in terms of market structure, competition and state involvement as well as how the reforms have impacted the overall performance of the railway sector. Finally, the chapter will put forward future perspectives in terms of how the railways in Europe will develop over the coming years.
R40|Multi-objective local environmental simulator (MOLES 1.0): Model specification, algorithm design and policy applications|This paper describes MOLES 1.0, an integrated land-use and transport model developed with Object-Oriented Programming principles in order to combine selected characteristics from Spatial Computable General Equilibrium and microsimulation models.
R40|The impact of road infrastructure investment on incumbent firms in Korea|This paper develops an indicator that combines the area that residents can reach within a certain time of travel with population density to create a proxy for “accessibility”, i.e. access to employment and consumption opportunities. Using a large scale firm level dataset, with nearly one million firm year observations over 14 years, the paper quantifies the link between firm-level outcomes and the change in accessibility in Korea due to the expansion of the network of major roads. The results suggest that the most productive firms benefited in terms of employment, output, and productivity, as accessibility improved. For the majority of incumbent firms, improved accessibility leaves most balance sheet variables broadly unaffected, but is associated with a decrease in fixed assets. The estimates also suggest that there was little job displacement, with the exception of service sectors where employment increased in response to improved local accessibility and declined for long distance accessibility.
R40|Do negative externalities have any impact on population agglomerations? Evidence from Urban India|India’s current haphazard unplanned urbanization has brought in its wake myriad problems like increase in number of vehicles, energy consumption, air pollution, noise pollution, violence, traffic congestion, traffic injuries and fatalities etc. In this perspective, the present paper tries to analyze and evaluate the trends and patterns of the different forms of urban negative externalities. It also measures the impact of negative externalities on city population agglomeration in India. In the absence of reliable city level data, the paper focuses only on 42 class I (population one lakh or more) cities in India and bases the analysis on four types of urban negative externalities i.e., number of registered motor vehicles, air pollution, road accidents, and crimes. The trends and patterns analysis suggests that urban India is currently witnessing a higher increase in the number and density of registered vehicles, air pollution, road accidents and also crimes. The OLS regression results show that negative externalities such as city wise air pollution, number of registered motor vehicles (measured by tractors and trucks density), and city-wise number of crimes have a negative effect on city population agglomerations. However, number of accidents, car density and total number of buses show a positive effect on city population agglomerations. Finally, this paper seeks to highlight the role of eco friendly public transport systems funded by the government in curbing urban negative externalities in India.
R40|Climate Zone Crucial for Efficiency of Ski Lift Operators|This paper investigates the efficiency of ski lift companies across different climate zones in a group of countries based on establishment data. By a joint estimation of the stochastic frontier production and efficiency equations, the results indicate that ski areas in subarctic climate zones are far more efficient than their counterparts in warmer zones. Presence of a large local market and elevation of the ski area are factors not relevant for efficiency. Output of ski lift operators (companies) increases with the length of ski runs, number of ski lifts, share of slopes covered by snowmaking facilities and availability of fast lifts. Productivity is also significantly higher for ski lift companies owned by a large conglomerate.
R40|Why do Portuguese Railways Languish? An Application of Internalisation of Transport Related Externalities|For the last ten years Portuguese railways has shown a gradual decrease in passengers’ annual figures; nearly 20 million. The major contributors are regional services and Lisbon’s commuting lines. Despite the number of passengers in the metropolitan area of Porto remains steady while the long-distance ridership market between the two major Portuguese cities, Lisbon and Porto presents a slightly growth starting in 2014, long-term perspectives for Portuguese railways are not optimistic. Lisbon and Porto, separated by a distance slightly greater than 300 km, are connected by the Northern Line, which was already competing with two parallel highways, is now facing a new threat in the form of an air-bridge launched one year ago with hourly airplane departures at very competitive ticket fares. There are clear indicators that this air-bridge will lure a large number of potential passengers away from long-distance rail therefore pressing up operator revenues over this important rail connection impacting its earning power: this line is responsible for more than 42% of the State-owned railways total earnings. Therefore, the aim of this article is to find why Portuguese rail languishes while air transport grows, increasing perverse results: climate change, health and non-health damages. Fuel exemption and the lack of excise duties produce enough market distortions to explain at some extent how aviation has seen such strong growth in demand at the expense of rail, but this market distortion do not tells the entire story. What is at stake is how to obtain a level playing field between the two modes. In that sense, it is necessary to internalise the social cost of carbon in a way to weight the real costs the society has actually to bear from each option because those costs are not borne by transport operators or users, but by society as a whole. After attach a money value to negative externalities, we identify as the root of the problem for the sustainability of Portuguese long-distance railways the lack of political will towards the internalisation of negative externalities.
R40|International Trade with Increasing Returns in the Transportation Sector|In this general equilibrium framework, the transportation sector is modeled as a distinct sector with increasing returns. A more advanced technology has a higher fixed cost but a lower marginal cost of production. Even with both manufacturing firms and transportation firms engaged in oligopolistic competition and optimally choosing their technologies, the model is tractable and results are derived analytically. Technology adoptions in the manufacturing sector and transportation sector are reinforcing, and multiple equilibria may exist. Firms choose more advanced technologies and the prices decrease when the size of the population is larger.
R40|Out-of-town Home Buyers and City Welfare|The major cities of the world have attracted a flurry of out-of-town (OOT) home buyers. Such capital inflows affect housing affordability, the spatial distribution of residents, construction, labor income, wealth, and ultimately welfare. We develop a spatial equilibrium model of a city with substantial heterogeneity among residents. We calibrate the model to the New York and Vancouver metro areas. The observed increase in OOT purchases is associated with 1.1% (5.0%) higher house prices and a 0.1% (0.34%) welfare loss in New York (Vancouver). Taxing OOT buyers can turn welfare losses into gains when tax revenues finance a local public good.
R40|Gravity, distance, and international trade|The authors review and interpret the main theoretical developments in the gravity literature from its very early, a-theoretical applications to the latest structural contributions. They also discuss challenges and implement methods to estimate empirical gravity equations. They finish with a presentation and examples of numerical simulations with the structural gravity model. Throughout the analysis they attempt to emphasize the links and importance of transportation costs for the trade literature, and outline avenues where they believe interdisciplinary contributions between the international trade and transportation economics fields will be most valuable.
R40|Measuring Financial Performance of Airline Passenger Transport Company in European|Airline passenger transport draws attention as a rapidly growing sector in the passenger transportation. In our country (in Turkey), the first in 1933, Turkish Airlines Corporation (THY) was established and today it is seen that the activity of the 10 companies in sector of airlines in Turkey. According to the results of Skytrax passenger evaluation, Turkish Airlines is award for 6 years (2011-2016) as the best airline in Europe seems worthy. In fact, the main reason behind this success can be the presence of a strong financial structure. Therefore, the main aim of this study is to evaluate the success of THY. For this reason, airline companies, which are operating a leading position in Europe, and THY is needed comparison of the results. In our study, datas that seven airline companies operating in Europe are used their financial statements including 2011-2016 periods. According to the results of analysis, Air Berlin Group and Thomas Cook Group have the highest loss in implementation. In addition, It is seen that Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines have the successful performance.
R40|Domestic Market Power in the International Airline Industry|We posit and empirically test the hypothesis that airlines are able to charge a fare premium in markets that originate in their domestic country relative to similar markets that originate in foreign countries. To this end, we focus on intercontinental one-stop air travel trips for which the main, intercontinental, flight legs are identical, while the feeder legs depart from a mixture of domestic- and foreign origins. We collect a unique database of published fares for such trips and estimate reduced form fare regressions with main flight leg fixed effects. We find that trips from and to domestic airports (compared with foreign airports) are characterized by about 9.5 per cent higher fares, even after adding controls for airport dominance, trip operating costs, the competitive environment and origin catchment area characteristics. These findings demonstrate that airlines have substantial domestic market power, enabling them to raise fares at their domestic airports irrespective of aforementioned market conditions. The magnitude of this domestic country effect is large relative to the traditional airport dominance effect, suggesting that the distinction between domestic- and foreign origins is a crucial determinant of the degree of market power that airlines can exert in the international airline industry.
R40|The Impact of Parking Policy on House Prices|Paid parking is the recommended policy tool by economists to deal with excess demand for street parking. However, we know very little about the effects of this policy on residents. This is particularly important in the context that residents have political power and usually vote against paid parking when it is detrimental to residents. Hence, in our analysis, we take into account that residents receive residential parking permits which provides political support for paid parking. We estimate the combined effect of a paid-parking parking policy – i.e. the introduction of paid parking and residential parking permits on residents – by examining its effect on house prices. We focus on Amsterdam and Utrecht using data over a period of 30 years. We do not find any effect of this paid-parking policy on house prices. This finding is consistent with the idea that residents only vote in favor of a local policy when it has no negative impact on their house prices.
R40|The Impact of Airline Mergers on Quality: Why Do Different Mergers Have Such Different Effects?|We investigate the impacts of five airline mergers on one quality dimension, namely route frequency. We use monthly data on routes between the largest 64 US cities from 1999 to 2016. On average, the mergers decrease the frequency, but there are large differences between the five mergers. We hypothesize that these differences resulted from differences in the market and network structures. Our estimations indicate that, if a destination has more connecting flights of the merging airlines, the merger is less detrimental to the frequency, possibly because the merger removes serial marginalization in the quality and price setting. For the market structure effect, we use two distinct set-ups. In the first set-up, the effects of mergers depend on a lagged variable measuring the current market structure. On routes with stronger competition, mergers decrease the frequency more, possibly due to a larger effect on the market structure. When the merging airlines control all the flights, mergers have almost no impact on the frequency. The second set-up uses the market structure before the merger. When one of the merging partners controlled all the flights between two airports, the merger does not directly affect the market structure and seems to have little to no impact on the frequency. Surprisingly, if both partners were flying between two airports before the merger, this merger does not seem to be more harmful to the frequency than when only one partner was operating on the route.
R40|The total size of an airline and the quality of its flights|We examine the relationship between the total size of an airline and its service quality by analysing over 4.8 million domestic flights within the USA in 2016. The total size of an airline is measured by its total market share, total amount of assets or total number of full-time equivalent employees. Delays are a widely used proxy for service quality and the most common category of airline customer complaints. Numerous regressions have been estimated using arrival delay time and whether a flight arrives on time as dependent variables. The regressors of main interest were the total airline size and the degree of competition on the route and airport. We control for weather, congestion, date, and characteristics of the airport, flight and airplane. The results suggest that the larger the total size of an airline, the smaller its average delay time and delay occurrence. Hence, larger airlines seem to offer a higher quality in terms of delays. We also find that an origin airport with less competition may lead to more delays. Surprisingly, a less competitive route may reduce delays.
R40|Is Uber a substitute or complement for public transit?|How Uber affects public transit ridership is a relevant policy question facing cities worldwide. Theoretically, Uber’s effect on transit is ambiguous: while Uber is an alternative mode of travel, it can also increase the reach and flexibility of public transit’s fixed-route, fixed-schedule service. We estimate the effect of Uber on public transit ridership using a difference-in-differences design that exploits variation across U.S. metropolitan areas in both the intensity of Uber penetration and the timing of Uber entry. We find that Uber is a complement for the average transit agency, increasing ridership by five percent after two years. This average effect masks considerable heterogeneity, with Uber increasing ridership more in larger cities and for smaller transit agencies.
R40|Agglomeration Effects and Liquidity Gradients in Local Rental Housing Markets|This paper empirically analyzes the relation between local liquidity in rental housing markets and urban agglomeration effects. Using listed rent offers from online market platforms, I study the cross-sectional variation of rental market liquidity. Local liquidity is negatively related to the distance to nearby located urban agglomeration centers, manifesting in a decreasing liquidity gradient. I show that agglomeration externalities expose local rental markets to a systematic liquidity risk. Furthermore, more thinly traded rental markets offer lower capitalization rates for investors.
R40|Traffic system in function of sustainable development|The goal of this paper is to identify advantages of traffic systems on economic development at a national level, and to address undesirable factors of traffic systems with respect to sustainable development. The methods used in this research include the historical method, comparative method, analysis and synthesis, inductive and deductive methods. Research results indicate the extremely negative influence of traffic on the environment and the fact that existing traffic systems are not sustainable with respect to the environment. The fundamental conclusion in the paper is the need to achieve a balance between the advantages provided by transport for economic development and the disadvantages caused by such growth. This balance also guarantees the long-term existence and transport success. One of the most significant challenges in the development of future transport systems is the integration of ecological and environmental goals.
R40|A bird-eye view of Costa Rica's transport infrastructure|Costa Rica's transport infrastructure sector has long suffered from insufficient and ineffective investment and maintenance spending, resulting in a congested and poor-quality transport network. Public spending has been below the OECD average and private sector participation is limited. The road network is extensive but of poor quality, railways are in disrepair and only slowly being reactivated after having been shut down in the 1990s, seaports quality and capacity are deficient. Internal transportation overly relies on private road vehicles as the public transport system, especially railways, is inadequate. As a result, the transport sector is the major source of greenhouse emissions. Major challenges hindering the sector performance are: excessive institutional fragmentation, which reduces transparency and accountability of public sector agencies, poor strategic planning, which results in haphazard infrastructure development and poor intermodal connections, aversion to private sector participation and absence of an infrastructure-project pipeline, which discourage private investment, poor project preparation and slow project execution due to no cost benefit analyses, unclear project selection criteria and insufficient stakeholder engagement. This working paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Survey of Costa Rica (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-costa-rica.htm). Une vue globale de l'infrastructure de transport du Costa Rica Le secteur des infrastructures de transport du Costa Rica a longtemps souffert des insuffisantes et inefficaces dépenses d'investissement et de maintenance, qui ont déterminé un réseau de transport congestionné et de mauvaise qualité. Les dépenses publiques ont été en dessous de la moyenne de l'OCDE et la participation du secteur privé est limitée. Le réseau routier est vaste, mais de mauvaise qualité, les chemins de fer sont en mauvais état et sont en train d'être lentement réactivé, après avoir été arrêté dans les années 1990, la qualité et capacité des ports maritimes sont insuffisant. Le transport interne repose excessivement sur les véhicules routiers privés puisque le système de transport public, en particulier les chemins de fer, est peu développé. Par conséquent, le secteur des transports est la principale source des émissions à effet de serre. Les défis majeurs qui entravent la performance du secteur sont: la excessive fragmentation institutionnelle, ce qui réduit la transparence et la responsabilité des organismes publics, une mauvaise planification stratégique, qui se traduit par un développement désordonné des infrastructures et des liaisons intermodales insuffisantes, l'aversion à la participation du secteur privé et l'absence d'une liste des projets d'infrastructure, qui découragent l'investissement privé, la faible qualité de la préparation des projets et leur exécutions lent en raison de la manque d'analyses coûts avantages, des critères flous pour la sélection des projets et engagement des parties prenantes insuffisantes. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de Costa Rica 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-costa-rica.htm).
R40|Improving Incentives for Clean Vehicle Purchases in the United States: Challenges and Opportunities|In recent decades, federal and state policymakers in the United States have adopted a variety of policy incentives to induce drivers to purchase advanced clean vehicles aimed at reducing externalities within the transportation sector. Focusing on plug-in electric vehicles, I examine the challenges to and opportunities for improving these policies. Recent research raises concerns about whether the incentives actually reach the intended consumers because of eligibility restrictions, salience of instruments in consumer decision making, and the impact of incentives across consumers and producers. The targeting of different externalities complicates policy design choices, which are further limited because purchase incentives do not affect driving behavior. Finally, an emerging literature suggests that the efficiency and cost effectiveness of these incentives may be improved by strategically targeting specific types of vehicles and consumers, as well as by combining them with vehicle retirement incentives. (JEL: Q53, Q55, R40)
R40|Profit-reducing fixed-price contract: The role of the transport sector|We show that under a fixed-price contract where an upstream firm first sets the input price and downstream firms subsequently invest in R&D, all firms can become worse off when considering two-way trade with firm-specific carriers.
R40|Demographic determinants of car ownership in Japan|This study empirically examines the demographic determinants of car ownership in Japan between 1980 and 2009. Unique car cohort data, composed of the car age and 11 car types, at the prefectural level, is analyzed. The primary reason for examining the demographic determinants of car ownership in Japan is because Japan is projected to face radical demographic changes in the next few decades. These projected changes include depopulation and an aging population with diminishing household size. This study will be the first empirical study of the car cohort model with large countrywide observations in the recent literature. This study classifies the demographic determinants into five categories: (I) longitudinal factors, (II) economic factors, (III) natural factors, (IV) social factors, and (V) other transports. Although some tendencies vary among car types, this study finds the following tendencies of ordinary car ownership (compact four-wheel drive trucks and regular and compact passenger cars). Regarding the longitudinal factors, the long-run effect is much higher than average in the recent literature, whereas the semi elasticity of car age is approximately −7%. Regarding the economic factors, the elasticities of income and fuel price on car ownership tend to be less intense than in earlier studies. Regarding the natural factors of population increase, the elasticities of population and average household size on car ownership tend to be negative. This indicates that a decrease in population and household size in Japan will accelerate car ownership. In addition, the ratio of elderly people has various effects depending on car types. Regarding the social factors of population increase, car ownership tends to be encouraged by the concentration of population within prefecture, and increased and decreased for relatively new (aged 2–11) and old (aged 12+) cars, respectively, by the concentration of population across prefectures. The former is probably due to a composite effect in urban and rural areas, whereas the latter may be a quick update cycle due to an effect of urbanization. Regarding other transports, the degrees of train and bus use tend to be negatively associated with ordinary car ownership. However, these effects are considerably small and often insignificant as in the literature.
R40|A scale‐free transportation network explains the city‐size distribution|Zipf's law is one of the best known empirical regularities in urban economics. There is extensive research on the subject, where each city is treated symmetrically in terms of the cost of transactions with other cities. Recent developments in network theory facilitate the examination of an asymmetric transport network. In a scale‐free network, the chance of observing extremes in network connections becomes higher than the Gaussian distribution predicts and, therefore, it explains the emergence of large clusters. The city‐size distribution shares the same pattern. This paper decodes how accessibility of a city to other cities on the transportation network can boost its local economy and explains the city‐size distribution as a result of its underlying transportation network structure. We confirm our model predictions with US and Belgian data. Finally, we discuss the endogenous evolution of transport networks.
R40|Modeling for Operating Expenses and Time Consumption of High-Speed Railway (HSR)|Transportation plays a significant role in each country’s economy and it is critically important to ensure its dynamic harmonious development. Operating expenses and time consumption are important indicators for planning vertical profile of high-speed railway line. The paper presents two models: i) first estimates the effect of stations spacing on operating expenses, and ii) second measures the effect of maximum gradient on time consumption. In this regard, six standard vertical profiles of high-speed railway line have been studied. The results show that operating expenses model is a third-degree function of station spacing, whereas time consumption model is a quadratic function of maximum gradient. Furthermore, it is determined that station spacing has great impact on operating expenses and time consumption of HSR.
R40|Emergence of a urban traffic macroscopic fundamental diagram|This paper examines mild conditions under which a macroscopic fundamental diagram (MFD) emerges, relating space-averaged speed to occupancy in some area. These conditions are validated against empirical data. We allow local speed-occupancy relationships and , in particular, require no equilibrating process to be in operation. This means that merely observing the stable relationship between the space-averages of speed, flow and occupancy are not sufficient to infer a robust relationship and the emerging MFD cannot be guaranteed to be stable if traffic interventions are implemented.
R40|Concentración, especialización y liderazgo de los puertos españoles. Análisis de los efectos de la crisis económica|La distribución del tráfico portuario en España ha mostrado tradicionalmente altos niveles de concentración, sobre todo en relación con la carga en contenedores. Sin embargo, los movimientos de contenedores en su conjunto ocultan un carácter diferencial de flujos. Así, existen distintos movimientos de contenedores: entre puertos españoles (cabotaje), entre los puertos internacionales (exportación e importación), o simplemente movimientos que utilizan el puerto como plataforma logística (en tránsito). En este trabajo se analiza la evolución de la concentración de los movimientos de contenedores, medidos en TEUs, para los tres tipos de transporte indicado, durante el periodo comprendido entre 2007 (que se podría considerar como año inmediatamente anterior al comienzo de la crisis económica iniciada en 2008) y 2015, en base a los índices de Herfindahl y Gini, con el fin de hacer una distinción entre las fuentes de concentración de cada tipo de movimientos. Esto permite identificar la posible especialización portuaria. Los resultados confirman el comportamiento diferencial de los tráficos de contenedores, así como la especialización y la jerarquía de las autoridades portuarias. The distribution of port traffic in Spain has traditionally shown high levels of concentration, especially for containerized cargo. However, the container movements as a whole hide a differential nature of containers’ flows: container movements: between Spanish ports (national cargo), between international ports (export and import cargo), or simply movements of containers using the port as a logistics platform (cargo in transit). In this paper, we have analyzed the evolution of concentration in the global container traffic (TEUs). The reference period is 2007 (such as immediately preceding the commencement of the economic crisis in 2008) and 2015. We calculated Herfindahl indices and Gini and on the three kind of movements (the national, the import-export and the transit cargo), in order to make a distinction between the concentration sources, related to the type of movements. So, the possible port specialization is analyzed. The results confirm the differential behavior of different types of traffic, as well as the specialization and headship of the ports authorities.
R40|Super-Proximity and Spatial Development|Our world is getting smaller all the time. Connectivity and accessibility in space have improved to an unprecedented degree compared to past centuries, thanks to the enhanced design and effective implementation of transport infrastructure networks and increasingly also as a result of advance cyber infrastructure networks. Our connected and accessible world has indeed become «a small world». Technological innovation has become a buzzword in the past decades. The design, implementation and adoption of digital technology, in particular, have prompted entirely new forms of spatial interaction and communication, with a significant and unprecedented impact on transport, trade, tourism, migration, and social contact networks. In today’s increasingly innovation-driven society, almost every activity, action, task, communication, interaction, movement and decision is supported by new technological artifacts and inventions. This paper introduces the notion of «super-proximity» to highlight the force field of physical and virtual infrastructures at various geographical scale and time levels, and to sketch the spatial-economic implications of this universal megatrend towards zero distance-frictions. The paper will be concluded with some prospective observations on the future spatial implications of the e-society and their analysis.
R40|What Drives Gender Differences in Commuting Behavior: Evidence from the American Time Use Survey|This study takes advantage of a large, nationally representative dataset, the American Time Use Survey (ATUS), to examine gender differences in commute character and time. A method of calculating commuting time that accounts for stops along the journey is applied to ATUS data; analysis of gender differences in the number, type, and length of stops demonstrates the need for this commuting measure. Explanations for women’s shorter commutes are reviewed and tested alongside predicted relationships from a simple labor supply model. Controlling for marital status and the presence of children, women are more likely to be accompanied by children for their commute, and women tend to make longer stops than men. Multivariate regression results support two previously proposed explanations for the gender commuting time gap, based on gender differences in wages and types of jobs held. Contrary to the previously proposed Household Responsibility Hypothesis, this analysis provides evidence that greater household responsibility does not explain women’s shorter commutes.
R40|Intra‐ and inter‐regional commuting: Assessing the role of wage differentials|The study aims to explain intra and inter‐regional mobility in the UK between 2004 and 2014, by examining the role played by regional wage differentials, and individual‐ and region‐specific characteristics. We use a two‐stage model: first, we generate individual predicted regional wage differentials; then, in the mobility equation, we study its effect on cross‐regional mobility. We verify that the wage differentials influence asymmetrically male and female workers, indicating the existence of a cross‐regional commuting gender gap which arises from different sensitivities to non‐monetary costs. The propensity to commute longer durations to other regions and the role of domestic responsibilities are also studied. El objeto de este estudio es explicar la movilidad intra e interregional en el Reino Unido entre 2004 y 2014, examinando el papel que desempeñan las diferencias salariales regionales y las características específicas de cada individuo y cada región. Se empleó un modelo de dos etapas: primero, se generaron predicciones individuales de las diferenciales salariales regionales; segundo, en la ecuación de movilidad, se estudió su efecto sobre la movilidad interregional. Se comprobó que las diferencias salariales influyen asimétricamente en los trabajadores y trabajadoras, lo que indica la existencia de una brecha de género interregional en el desplazamiento al trabajo que surge de las diferentes sensibilidades a los costos no monetarios. También se estudió la propensión a realizar viajes más largos a otras regiones y el papel de las responsabilidades domésticas. 本研究の目的は、地域間賃金格差が果たす役割、及び個人及び地域特有の特性を検討して、それにより2004年~2014年までの英国における地域内及び地域間移動を説明することである。2段階モデルを使用し、はじめに地域間賃金格差の個別の予測値を生成し、次に、移動の方程式において、地域間移動に対するその効果を研究した。賃金格差は男性労働者と女性労働者に非対称的に影響することが確認され、非金銭的費用に対する異なる感度から生じるcross‐regional commuting gender gap (地域間通勤のジェンダーギャップ)が存在することが示された。他の地域への通勤時間が長い傾向と家庭での役割についても検討した。
R40|Assessing the Impact of the Latest Deregulatory Developments in the EU28 Transport Industry Production: a Critical Review Based on Empirical Data|The European Transport Industry has been heavily deregulated during the past 30 years, through initiatives that increase competition among incumbents primarily by reducing the entry restrictions and by opening the market(s) for non-state owned companies. This paper discusses the impact the latest interventions by the European Commission in terms of further opening the transport industry have had. By analyzing current data, the impact of economic deregulation on the volume of transport industry production is studied. The empirical evidence confirm the positive impact on the system wide level suggesting the further use of deregulatory tools in order to support the industry growth. Additionally, recommendations for further research are made in order to understand more in depth the indirect effects of deregulation.
R40|Managerial psychology and transport firms efficiency: a stochastic frontier analysis|This paper presents an original essay that explains how managerial psychology affects the efficiency of transport firms. Stochastic frontier analysis methods are applied to our sample over a 12-year period from 2000 to 2011, where we aim to detect the potential effect of a well-documented bias in behavioral economic and finance theory: the managerial optimism bias. We initiate a debate concerning the potential role of Chief Executive Officers’ (CEO) irrationalities in explaining the inefficiency of public transport operators, such as the shortfall between the optimal production function and the observed production level. We find strong evidence of the negative impact of CEOs’ optimism bias on transport firms’ technical efficiency, meaning that managerial optimism decreases transport firms’ technical efficiency. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
R40|Caution, Drivers! Children Present: Traffic, Pollution, and Infant Health|We investigate the effects of automobile congestion on ambient air pollution and local infant mortality rates using data from California spanning 2002 to 2007. Constructing instrumental variables (IV) using the relationship of traffic, weather conditions, and pollutants, we show that particulate matter, even at modern levels, has large marginal effects on weekly infant mortality rates, especially for premature or low birthweight infants. We also find suggestive evidence of large effects for carbon monoxide, though results are imprecise. Finally, we check estimate sensitivity to nonclassical measurement error in local pollution and show that our IV results are robust to such concerns.
R40|Population Structures in Russia: Optimality and Dependence on Parameters of Global Evolution|The paper is devoted to analytical investigation of the division of geographical space into urban and rural areas with application to Russia. Yegorov (2005, 2006, 2009) has suggested the role of population density on economics. A city has an attractive potential based on scale economies. The optimal city size depends on the balance between its attractive potential and the cost of living that can be approximated by equilibrium land rent and commuting cost. For moderate scale effects optimal population of a city depends negatively on transport costs that are related positively with energy price index. The optimal agricultural density of population can also be constructed. The larger is a land slot per peasant, the higher will be the output from one unit of his labour force applied to this slot. But at the same time, larger farm size results in increase of energy costs, related to land development, collecting the crop and bringing it to the market. In the last 10 years we have observed substantial rise of both food and energy prices at the world stock markets. However, the income of farmers did not grow as fast as food price index. This can shift optimal rural population density to lower level, causing migration to cities (and we observe this tendency globally). Any change in those prices results in suboptimality of existing spatial structures. If changes are slow, the optimal infrastructure can be adjusted by simple migration. If the shocks are high, adaptation may be impossible and shock will persist. This took place in early 1990es in the former USSR, where after transition to world price for oil in domestic markets existing spatial infrastructure became suboptimal and resulted in persistent crisis, leading to deterioration of both industry and agriculture. Russia is the largest country but this is also its problem. Having large resource endowment per capita, it is problematic to build sufficient infrastructure. Russia has too low population density and rural density declines further due to low fertility and migration to cities. Those factors limited the growth of the USSR, but after the economic reforms of 1990s the existing infrastructure became exposed to permanent shock of high transport costs. Due to large distances it is optimal to return to gasoline and thus transport subsidy. This will work also against disintegration of the country.
R40|Long-Range Growth: Economic Development in the Global Network of Air Links|We study the impact of international long-distance flights on the global spatial allocation of economic activity. To identify causal effects, we exploit variation due to regulatory and technological constraints, which gives rise to a discontinuity in connectedness between cities at a distance of 6,000 miles. We show that improving an airport’s position in the network of air links has a positive effect on local economic activity, as captured by satellite-measured night lights. We find that air links increase business links, showing that the movement of people fosters the movement of capital. In particular, this is driven mostly by capital flowing from high-income to middle-income (but not low-income) countries. Taken together, the results suggest that increasing interconnectedness induces links between businesses and generates economic activity at the local level but also gives rise to increased spatial inequality locally, and potentially globally.
R40|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros.
R40|Government Quality And The Economic Returns Of Transport Infrastructure Investment In European Regions|Transport infrastructure investment is a cornerstone of growth-promoting strategies. However, in the case of Europe the relevant literature is increasingly failing to find a clear link between infrastructure investment and economic performance. This may be a consequence of overlooking the role of government institutions. This paper assesses the connection between regional quality of government and the returns of different types of road infrastructure in EU regions during the period between 1995 and 2009. The results unveil a strong influence of regional quality of government on the economic returns of transport infrastructure. In weak institutional contexts, investments in motorways – the preferred option by local governments – yield significantly lower returns than the more humble but possibly more efficient secondary road. Government institutions also affect the returns of transport maintenance investment.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R40|On Ya Bike? A Review of the Christchurch Cycleway Network Business Case|Transport consulting firm QTP Ltd has estimated that the proposed Christchurch cycleway network provides $8 of economic benefits for every dollar invested; i.e., a benefitcost ratio (BCR) of 8.0. As a result, the Christchurch City Council has labelled the network’s business case as “proven”. However, this “proven” business case has been the subject of precisely zero public scrutiny. We provide that scrutiny and find, in contrast to QTP, that the cycleway network is a doubtful proposition from an economic efficiency perspective, having an estimated BCR in the 0.7-1.6 range, at best.
R40|Express delivery to the suburbs. The effects of transportation in Europe’s heterogeneous cities|This paper provides evidence for the causal effect of the highway and railway infrastructure on the suburbanization of population in European cities. We adopt different measures of transportation infrastructure and estimate their joint effects on suburbanization using a two-step panel approach. Our main results suggest that an additional highway ray displaced approximately 4% of the central city population in European cities over a 10-year period, whereas we find no significant effect for the railways on average. However, railways did cause suburbanization those located in Central-North Europe. When employing the full time span covered by our data and accounting for the diversity of European cities, we find a smaller effect of highways on suburbanization during more recent decades and for “cities with history”. Factors such as historical urban amenities, traffic congestion, urban policies etc. appear to provide reasonable explanations for these differences. The findings of this paper are novel and provide valuable insights for European regional and transport policies.
R40|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros. ******ABSTRACT: This paper investigates about the presence of foreign companies and businessmen in the Colombian Caribbean between the 1870s and 1930s. This in order to understand their participation in the Colombian foreign trade, as well as their contributions to technological innovation in a strategic sector such as transportation. For this purpose, business experiences in river steamboat and railroad transportation in Barranquilla and Santa Marta are analyzed, activities which have always been linked to foreign investors.
R40|Game of Zones: The Political Economy of Conservation Areas|We develop a simple theory of the conservation area designation process in which we postulate that the level of designation is chosen to comply with interests of local homeowners. Conservation areas provide benefits to local homeowners by reducing uncertainty regarding the future of their area. The restrictions, however, impose a cost by limiting the degree to which properties can be altered. In line with our model predictions we find that an increase in preferences for historic character by the local population increases the likelihood of a designation, and that new designations are not associated with significant house price capitalisation effects.
R40|Asset price bubbles and monetary policy in a small open economy|In this paper we expanded the closed economy model by Bernanke and Gertler (1999) in order to account for the macroeconomic effects of an asset price bubble in the context of a small open economy model. During the nineties emerging market economies opened their financial accounts to foreign investment but generated growing macroeconomic imbalances in these economies. Our goal in this paper is twofold: first we want to analyze if the conclusions of Bernanke and Gertler (1999) remain in the case of a small open economy. And second, we want to compare the results in terms of macroeconomic volatility of the model for a closed economy versus the model for a small open economy. Our results show that the conclusion about the fact that the Central Bank should not react to asset price remains as in the case of a closed economy model, and that small open economies are more vulnerable to asset prices bubbles due to capital inflows and the exchange rate mechanism of the monetary policy. Therefore in small open economies the business cycle is deeper. Finally, in the face of a boom followed by a bust in an asset price bubble, macroeconomic volatility would be dampened if the monetary authority focuses only on inflation.
R40|Asset price bubbles and monetary policy in a small open economy|In this paper we expanded the closed economy model by Bernanke and Gertler (1999) in order to account for the macroeconomic effects of an asset price bubble in the context of a small open economy model. During the nineties emerging market economies opened their financial accounts to foreign investment but generated growing macroeconomic imbalances in these economies. Our goal in this paper is twofold: first we want to analyze if the conclusions of Bernanke and Gertler (1999) remain in the case of a small open economy. And second, we want to compare the results in terms of macroeconomic volatility of the model for a closed economy versus the model for a small open economy. Our results show that the conclusion about the fact that the Central Bank should not react to asset price remains as in the case of a closed economy model, and that small open economies are more vulnerable to asset prices bubbles due to capital inflows and the exchange rate mechanism of the monetary policy. Therefore in small open economies the business cycle is deeper. Finally, in the face of a boom followed by a bust in an asset price bubble, macroeconomic volatility would be dampened if the monetary authority focuses only on inflation. ****** En el presente ensayo ampliamos el modelo de economía cerrada de Bernarke y Gertler (1999) con el fin de tener en cuenta los efectos macroeconómicos de la burbuja de precios de los activos en el contexto de un modelo de economía pequeña y abierta. Durante los noventa, las economías emergentes abrieron sus cuentas financieras a las inversiones extranjeras, pero esto generó un desequilibro macroeconómico creciente en estas economías. Nuestro objetivo con este estudio es doble: en primer lugar, queremos analizar si las conclusiones de Bernarke y Gertler (1999) se mantienen en el caso de una economía abierta y pequeña. En segundo lugar, queremos comparar los resultados en el ámbito de la volatilidad macroeconómica del modelo en una economía cerrada frente al modelo de de una economía abierta y pequeña. Nuestros resultados demuestran que la conclusión acerca de que el Banco Central no debería reaccionar ante los precios de los activos se mantiene como en el caso del modelo económico cerrado, y que las economías abiertas pequeñas son más vulnerables a las burbujas de precios de los activos debido a la afluencia de capital y al mecanismo de tipos de cambio de la política monetaria. Por lo tanto, el ciclo económico está más acentuado en las economías abiertas pequeñas. Por último, ante un rápido incremento seguido de una caída repentina de la burbuja de precios de los activos la volatilidad macroeconómica se vería amortiguada en caso de que la autoridad monetaria se centrase únicamente en la inflación.
R40|If we build it, will they pay? Predicting property price effects of transport innovations|In this study I apply a gravity-type labor-market accessibility model to the Greater London Area to investigate house price capitalization effects. The spatial scope of labor-market effects is found to be about 60 minutes. Doubling accessibility increases the utility of an average household by about 12%. I combine the gravity approach with a transport decision model that takes into account the urban rail network architecture, allows for mode switching, and thus accounts for the effective accessibility offered by a station, to predict the property price effects of the 1999 Jubilee Line and DLR extension. A considerable degree of heterogeneity is predicted both in terms of the magnitude as well as the spatial extent of price effects around new stations. A quasi-experimental property price analysis reveals that the model performs well in predicting the effective capitalization effects, suggesting that the approach might be a viable ingredient in transport planning. Keywords: property prices, hedonic analysis, transport innovations, gravity equation
R40|Firm location and productivity in Spain|This paper presents an exploratory analysis of the relation between where a firm is located and its productivity. The analysis distinguishes two location characteristics measured at the municipality level: local agglomeration measured by population density and access to markets captured through market potential. The results show a significant positive relation between both local population density and market potential and firm-level productivity. The results further indicate that while productivity is higher in urban areas, the cross-sectional association between market potential and firm-level productivity appears higher outside urban areas.
R40|Firm location and productivity in Spain|This paper presents an exploratory analysis of the relation between where a firm is located and its productivity. The analysis distinguishes two location characteristics measured at the municipality level: local agglomeration measured by population density and access to markets captured through market potential. The results show a significant positive relation between both local population density and market potential and firm-level productivity. The results further indicate that while productivity is higher in urban areas, the cross-sectional association between market potential and firm-level productivity appears higher outside urban areas. Localización y productividad de la empresa española Este artículo presenta un análisis exploratorio de la relación que existe entre la localización de una empresa y su productividad. El estudio distingue dos características de localización medidas a nivel municipal: la aglomeración local,medida a través de la densidad de población, y el acceso a mercados, basado en un índice de potencial de mercado. Los resultados muestran una relación positiva y significativa de la productividad de las empresas, y tanto la densidad de población como el potencial de mercado. Además, mientras que la productividad de las empresas es mayor en las áreas urbanas, en municipios fuera de las áreas urbanas la asociación estadística en sección cruzada entre el potencial de mercado y la productividad parece mayor.
R40|If We Build it, Will They Pay? Predicting Property Price Effects of Transport Innovations|In this study I apply a gravity-type labor-market accessibility model to the Greater London Area to investigate house price capitalization effects. The spatial scope of labor-market effects is found to be about 60 minutes. Doubling accessibility increases the utility of an average household by about 12%. I combine the gravity approach with a transport decision model that takes into account the urban rail network architecture, allows for mode switching, and thus accounts for the effective accessibility offered by a station, to predict the property price effects of the 1999 Jubilee Line and DLR extension. A considerable degree of heterogeneity is predicted both in terms of the magnitude as well as the spatial extent of price effects around new stations. A quasi-experimental property price analysis reveals that the model performs well in predicting the effective capitalization effects, suggesting that the approach might be a viable ingredient in transport planning.
R40|Antecedentes|Se presentan los antecedentes y las características principales de la carretera Interoceánica
R40|Síntesis de estudios anteriores|Se realiza un resumen de los estudios de prefactibilidad y factibilidad, mediante los cuales se realizaron evaluaciones económicas del proyecto.
R40|Romania’s Foreign Trade, Transportation, Credit System and National Riches in Modern Liberal Economic Thinking|The main aim of this paper is to analyze the consequences in foreign trade, transportation and the credit system of a nation because of the strengthening of the economic organism, through the economic and political reformation. The paper refers to the case of the Romanian Economy for the period 1859-1918. Romania’s modernization and development are the result of the contribution brought by the thinkers of that time, especially by the radical liberal thinkers. At the same time, we should not neglect the participation, more modest however, of the conservative thinkers and their contribution in the economic development of the country.
