R42|Would my driving pattern change if my neighbor were to buy an emission-free car?|Aiming to reduce the number of brown (polluting) cars on the road, several countries currently promote the purchase and use of green (emission-free) cars through financial and non-financial incentives. We study how such incentives affect consumers who continue to drive brown cars. Using a simple model, we analyze the effects of policy instruments such as subsidizing green cars, taxing brown cars, and allowing green cars to drive in bus lanes. Car owners are influenced by price incentives as well as by external effects from traffic (such as congestion) both in regular lanes and in bus lanes. An extension of the model also considers how changes in local driving habits affect brown-car driving. We find that subsidizing green cars and allowing green cars to drive in bus lanes might increase brown-car driving. We also report the results of a recent survey containing questions specifically designed to tap the significance of the model’s core mechanisms. The results are largely consistent with propositions derived from the model. While most brown-car respondents report their driving was unchanged after the implementation of the policies to promote green cars, some – particularly in major cities – report that these policies caused them to reduce or increase their driving. We conclude that some mechanisms in our model are more important than others and that certain mechanisms appear to influence different brown-car drivers in different ways. Overall, it seems that Norwegian policies to promote the purchase and use of green cars have indeed reduced brown-car driving.
R42|Libéralisation du rail : qui va gagner, qui va perdre?|Cette étude aborde la libéralisation du rail dans les trois pays où celle-ci est la plus avancée (Grande-Bretagne, Suède et Allemagne). Nous étudions les impacts de la libéralisation sur les principaux acteurs susceptibles d’être affectés positivement ou négativement par celle-ci. Les résultats sont contrastés selon les variables étudiées et les pays. De manière générale, il semble que le coût pour le contribuable ne se soit pas réduit. Les subsides publics ont augmenté, que ce soit suite ou parallèlement aux expériences de libéralisation. La part modale du train et la ponctualité se sont améliorées dans tous les pays concernés, même s’il est difficile d’en attribuer la cause à la libéralisation, puisque celle-ci a été accompagnée d’un important refinancement et réinvestissement public. Les autres aspects de la qualité du service (prix, sécurité,...) ne semblent quant à eux pas avoir été sensiblement affectés par la libéralisation. Seule une différenciation des tarifs semble s’être généralisée, avec des billets plus coûteux en heure de pointe et moins coûteux en heure creuse. Enfin, il apparaît que le nombre de cheminots ait été considérablement réduit après la mise en place de la concurrence, entraînant plus de flexibilité et une augmentation des cadences pour le personnel restant. Les conditions de travail des cheminots se sont généralement détériorées.
R42|Strengthening Connectivity for Trade and Development: An Assessment of the Southern Asian Container Rail Corridor|Limitations of cross-border transport connectivity has been observed to have curtailed the full potential of trade led development in the Southern Asian subregion. Inefficiencies of international transport has hurt the trade prospects of not only Southern Asian countries but also trading partners from neighboring subregions, especially the landlocked countries of South and Central Asia which could use well-functioning Southern Asian transport corridors to the advantage of all. UNESCAP has proposed operationalization of a trunk Southern Asian transport route, namely the Istanbul–Tehran–Islamabad– Delhi–Kolkata–Dhaka-Yangon (ITI–DKD-Y) Container Rail Corridor, opening possibilities of new cost-effective transport options. This paper undertakes an assessment of the operational feasibility of this trunk corridor, and finds significant cost and time advantages. Comparing with existing alternative transport options, which often involve circuitous carriageways and transshipment delays, usage of even partial segments of the ITI-DKD-Y Corridor can lead to cost reduction to the tune of US$ 1122 per container (twenty-foot equivalent unit), potentially halving the current costs under modest assumptions. In certain segments, such as Delhi-Lahore, the rate of savings could be as high as 80 percent. Such high rates of cost reduction could translate into savings worth over 50 percent in transaction cost for regular cargo rail services between segments. Besides cost reduction, such services could also yield considerable time savings compared to available alternatives. In certain segments, the delivery time could be reduced by up to 14 days. Activation of end-to-end rail service along the ITI-DKD-Y route, along with multimodal transit linkages to landlocked countries at strategic terminals in the route, can maximize traffic volumes and revenues. Operationalization of the corridor requires concerted efforts to build institutional collaboration, facilitation of container train operators, introduction of container interchange protocols, usage of ICT tools, development of strategic dry ports for intermodal connectivity and adoption of a connectivity master plan.
R42|Freeway Revolts!|Freeway revolts were widespread protests across the U.S. following early urban Interstate construction in the mid-1950s. We present theory and evidence from panel data on neighborhoods and travel behavior to show that diminished quality of life from freeway disamenities inspired the revolts, aﬀected the allocation of freeways within cities, and changed city structure. First, actual freeway construction diverged from initial plans in the wake of the growing freeway revolts and subsequent policy responses, especially in central neighborhoods. Second, freeways caused slower growth in population, income, and land values in central areas, but faster growth in outlying areas. These patterns suggest that in central areas, freeway disamenity eﬀects exceeded small access beneﬁts. Third, in a quantitative general equilibrium spatial model, the aggregate beneﬁts from burying or capping freeways are large and concentrated downtown. This result suggests that targeted mitigation policies could improve welfare and helps explain why opposition to freeways is often observed in central neighborhoods. Disamenities from freeways, versus their commuting beneﬁts, likely played a signiﬁcant role in the decentralization of U.S. cities.
R42|How Should We Measure City Size? Theory and Evidence Within and Across Rich and Poor Countries|It is obvious that holding city population constant, differences in cities across the world are enormous. Urban giants in poor countries are not large using measures such as land area, interior space or value of output. These differences are easily reconciled mathematically as population is the product of land area, structure space per unit land (i.e., heights), and population per unit interior space (i.e., crowding). The first two are far larger in the cities of developed countries while the latter is larger for the cities of developing countries. In order to study sources of diversity among cities with similar population, we construct a version of the standard urban model (SUM) that yields the prediction that the elasticity of city size with respect to income could be similar within both developing countries and developed countries. However, differences in income and urban technology can explain the physical differences between the cities of developed countries and developing countries. Second, using a variety of newly merged data sets, the predictions of the SUM for similarities and differences of cities in developed and developing countries are tested. The findings suggest that population is a sufficient statistic to characterize city differences among cities within the same country, not across countries.
R42|Price elasticities of demand for (garage) parking in Stockholm|There is scope for generating welfare effects by changing parking fees, where knowledge on price elasticities are central elements in the implementation of an efficient parking policy. In this paper, we estimate price elasticities of demand for five parking garages in the central business district of Stockholm, using transaction data and a price increase implemented in January 2017. The econometric results for the purchased parking hours show an average elasticity estimate at -0.60, while the effect on the decision to park is -0.45. These elasticities vary for the different parking garages, showing that there is a considerable heterogeneity between garages, even within the central business district, which needs to be considered for an efficient parking policy. Based on our estimated elasticity for garage parking (-0.60) and a willingness to pay a premium for curbside parking in previous research, we calculate a proxy for the elasticity of curbside parking in Stockholm, which is found to be -0.39.
R42|Styrmedel för självkörande fordon|Tekniken för självkörande fordon utvecklas snabbt, även om drömmen om helt självkörande fordon fortfarande är relativt osäker. I detta PM görs översikter över flera olika litteraturer. En är en översikt över de effekter som självkörande fordon kan förväntas ha på trängsel, restid, markanvändning och parkering, påverkan på urban sprawl, miljöeffekter och påverkan på energianvändning, trafiksäkerhet samt hälsoeffekter. Självkörande fordon kommer dessutom ha en stor påverkan på självkörande taxi och kollektivtrafiksystem, där flera bedömare anser att det sistnämnda bara kommer kunna existera i sin nuvarande form i tätbebyggda områden. Självkörande fordon kan vidare bidra med ökad och förbättrad mobilitet för grupper så som funktionshindrade, äldre och barn, de påverkar infrastrukturplaneringen, och avslutningsvis har de potential att revolutionera godstransportsystemet. Utifrån en förståelse för hur självkörande fordon påverkar transportsystemet och det omgivande samhället görs sedan en översikt över den litteratur som studerar möjliga styrmedel för att internalisera de externa effekter som självkörande fordon orsakar. Litteraturen omfattar även styrmedel som ska stödja introduktionen av självkörande fordon, även om det inte är klart varför ett sådant stöd skulle behövas, samt vissa styrmedel, framförallt olika typer av vägavgifter, som skulle kunna användas för att internalisera effekter av ökad trängsel. Avslutningsvis relateras både de effekter som självkörande fordon har, och de styrmedel som undersökts till Trafikverkets mål och slutsatser dras gällande behov av framtida forskning.
R42|“The impact of curbside parking regulations on car ownership”|Car ownership is a major driver of household travel behavior and has a marked impact on transport demand, energy consumption, emission levels and land use. However, just how curbside parking regulations (i.e. paid parking) affects car ownership remains unclear. Here, we employ a two-way fixed effect model using panel data and difference-in-differences estimations to determine the causal impact of changes in parking regulations and the specific impact of the extension of a city-wide parking policy in Barcelona. Our results suggest that the introduction of paid parking to reduce non-resident/visitor demand has a positive impact on resident car ownership levels. Our welfare analysis suggests that the welfare loss derived from the residents’ parking subsidy and their likely increase in car usage can easily offset the benefits derived from visitor-trip deterrence. This being the case, the tradeoff between efficiency and acceptability requires careful consideration.
R42|A geographical simulation of impacts of Vientiane-Hanoi expressway|In this paper, we estimated the economic impacts of the proposed and some alternative routes of Vientiane-Hanoi Expressway (VHE), using a computational general equilibrium model based on spatial economics. The estimation results show that overall international positive impact depends more on whether it forms a cross-border expressway connection between the capitals of Vietnam and Thailand. The proximity of the expressway to Laos’s capital is nevertheless critical to economic benefits expected within Laos.
R42|The Welfare Effects of Transportation Infrastructure Improvements|We develop a general equilibrium geographic framework to characterize the welfare effect of transportation infrastructure investments. We tackle three distinct but conflating challenges: First, we offer an analytical characterization of the routing problem and, in particular, how infrastructure investment between any two connected locations decreases the total trade costs between all pairs of locations. Second, we characterize how this cost reduction affects welfare within a standard general equilibrium geography setup where market inefficiencies arise due to agglomeration and dispersion spillovers. Finally, we show how our framework admits analytical characterizations of traffic congestion, which creates a critical --albeit tractable--feedback loop between trade costs and the general equilibrium economic system. We apply these results to calculate the welfare eects of improving each of the thousands of segments of the U.S. national highway network. We nd large but heterogeneous welfare eects with the largest gains concentrated in metropolitan areas and along important trading corridors
R42|A free rider problem? The effect of electric vehicles on urban toll prices in Norway|Several cities around the world try to internalise congestion costs from road traffic by instituting charges for entering their city centres. The revenues collected from these charges are often redistributed to improve conditions for motorists, cy- clists, pedestrians and public transport. At the same time, many schemes allow for exemption of cleaner vehicles, which might offset the reduction in congestion and reduce revenue. In this paper, I assess the effects of exempting electric vehicles from charge on the charge level. Using panel data of Norwegian cities with urban toll rings, I exploit regional variation, and and that a higher share of electric vehicles increase toll charges. The results imply that owners of conventional cars pay 2.5 NOK (0.3 USD) more per passing because of the exemption. The estimates are robust to variations in estimation method and sample. As the majority of electric vehicle owners have above-average income, exempting electric cars from toll charges suggests a distribution effect that have implications for social welfare.
R42|Améliorer l’efficience de l’investissement public en France|L’investissement public a le potentiel de stimuler la demande à court terme, et des infrastructures appropriées peuvent aussi entraîner des gains de productivité et contribuer à rendre la croissance économique plus inclusive en garantissant une égalité d’accès au marché du travail, à l’éducation et aux soins de santé. Les investissements publics de la France sont élevés, et son stock de capital public est important. En particulier, le réseau d’infrastructures de la France est bien développé, et très bien classé si on le compare à celui d’autres pays. Pour autant, dans certains secteurs, le manque d’investissements d’entretien et de modernisation a sans doute nui à l’efficacité du capital investi dans les infrastructures existantes. Pour pouvoir bénéficier pleinement de ses investissements publics, la France doit renforcer et développer l’ensemble de sa stratégie pour relever plusieurs défis, consistant notamment à promouvoir les considérations d’efficience socio-économique dans le choix de ses projets d’investissement, à harmoniser les procédures s’étalant sur toute la durée de vie des investissements entre les différents secteurs et niveaux administratifs, et à concentrer les investissements de certains secteurs sur l’entretien et la qualité du stock de capital. En outre, comme les collectivités locales sont responsables de la plupart des investissements publics, il sera utile de poursuivre les efforts visant à répartir clairement les responsabilités entre les différents échelons administratifs pour pouvoir bénéficier d’économies d’échelle et de gamme. L’investissement public devrait aussi viser à atteindre les objectifs fixés dans les domaines de l’environnement, du numérique, de la recherche et de l’innovation pour permettre à la France de respecter ses engagements nationaux et internationaux et garantir une croissance plus vigoureuse et plus durable. Les choix opérés devront faire une place à l’investissement privé pour permettre la réalisation de ces objectifs et stimuler la croissance potentielle, notamment en développant une liste de projets prêts à financer et en ajustant de manière dynamique le soutien public aux politiques en matière d’énergie et de changement climatique. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de la France 2019 (http://www.oecd.org/fr/economie/france-en-un-coup-d-oeil/)
R42|Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses road accessibility, transport corridors and checkpoints set up in border towns in West Africa. An innovative model shows that the population base of border towns could be 14% greater if there were no delays at border crossings. The existence of roadside checks decreases the size of this population base from 12 to 50%. A study of 59 jointly planned or operated border posts in sub-Saharan Africa shows that trade facilitation runs up against the special interests of public servants and private-sector actors making a living from regional integration frictions.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22
R42|Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’accessibilité routière, les corridors de transport et les postes de contrôle uniques mis en place dans les villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest. Un modèle inédit montre que le bassin de population des villes frontalières pourrait être 14 % plus important sans attente aux frontières. L’existence de contrôles routiers diminue de 12 à 50 % ce bassin de population. Une étude des 59 postes de contrôle d’Afrique subsaharienne montre ensuite que la facilitation du commerce se heurte aux intérêts des fonctionnaires et des acteurs privés vivant des frictions de l’intégration régionale.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22
R42|Transportation Project Evaluation Methods/Approaches|In this paper, I briefly review the key methods to evaluate transportation projects. These methods are: Financial analysis; Cost benefit (economic analysis); Multi-criteria analysis; Cost-effectiveness analysis; Social welfare analysis; and Risk analysis (Monte Carlo simulation). The importance of understanding these methods lies in the fact that transportation projects offer huge social benefits and costs; some are impossible or very complex to measure in monetary terms.
R42|The Determinants of Economic Growth: The Role of Infrastructure|The main objectives of the study were to examine the effect of infrastructure (i.e. railway network) on economic growth and to examine the direction of causality between economic growth and infrastructure using historical data covering the period of 1980 to 2016 and cointegration analysis. The findings from the study revealed a positive and significant effect of infrastructure on economic growth in the long-run however, the effect of infrastructure on economic growth was not significant in the short-run analysis. Also, the test of causality found a unidirectional causality running from economic growth to infrastructure. To increase economic growth in the United States, this study recommends that both the Federal and the State Government should increase its investments in infrastructure spending especially in railways.
R42|Impact of Road Infrastructure Investments on the Structural Competitiveness of the Burkina Faso Economy|This article assesses the impact of road infrastructure investments on the structural competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy. After retaining the period from 1980 to 2015, the estimate of the Model to Error Correction (ECM) revealed that investment in road infrastructure positively and significantly affects the structural competitiveness of the economy. However, this incidence varies over time. In fact, the elasticity of structural competitiveness compared to road investments is 0.06 in the short term and 0.32 in the long term. In view of these results, it appears that the implication of economic policy that emerges is that an increase in investment in road infrastructure is a policy of gaining structural competitiveness of the country's economy.
R42|Non-linear effects of investment in road infrastructure on the structural competitiveness of the economy: the case of Burkina Faso|This paper assesses the non-linear effects of road infrastructure investment on the structural competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy. After retaining the period from 1980 to 2015, the quadratic and spline estimation revealed a non-linearity between the structural economy competitiveness and investment in road infrastructure. Indeed, the quadratic estimate identified non lineary U-shaped inverted with an optimal threshold of 10.11%. With regard to the spline estimation, it also highlighted this nonlinearity and gave an optimal interval of [5%;15%]. The economic policy implication that emerges from these results is that in order to benefit from optimal structural competitiveness, the investment’s share in road infrastructure in the total investment budget must be between5% and 15%.
R42|Cost Benefit Analysis of a Regional Arterial PPP Toll Road Project: A Case Study of the Proposed R-1 Toll Road|Road infrastructure is of vital importance for the economic development of a country. Roads facilitate the movement of people, goods, services and resources. Traditionally, public infrastructure such as roads has been provided using national budgetary resources. Over time the participation of the private sector has increased in the procurement and provision of road infrastructure. Public authorities have been partnering with the private sector due to the limitation of capital to undertake such projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) of various forms have been used extensively in road transportation projects as an alternative to state and local government procurement and provision of road infrastructure. The objective of this study is to undertake an integrated investment appraisal of a proposed PPP toll road project in the Southern African country of Zimbabwe using Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA).
R42|The Welfare Effects of Transportation Infrastructure Improvements|We develop a general equilibrium geographic framework to characterize the welfare effect of transportation infrastructure investments. We tackle three distinct but conflating challenges: First, we offer an analytical characterization of the routing problem and, in particular, how infrastructure investment between any two connected locations decreases the total trade costs between all pairs of locations. Second, we characterize how this cost reduction affects welfare within a standard general equilibrium geography setup where market inefficiencies arise due to agglomeration and dispersion spillovers. Finally, we show how our framework admits analytical characterizations of traffic congestion, which creates a critical – albeit tractable – feedback loop between trade costs and the general equilibrium economic system. We apply these results to calculate the welfare effects of improving each of the thousands of segments of the U.S. national highway network. We find large but heterogeneous welfare effects, with the largest gains concentrated in metropolitan areas and along important trading corridors.
R42|The Role of Electricity in Decarbonizing European Road Transport – Development and Assessment of an Integrated Multi-Sectoral Model|Despite regulation eﬀorts, CO2 emissions from European road transport have continued to rise. Increased use of electricity oﬀers a promising decarbonization option, both to fuel electric vehicles and run power-to-x systems producing synthetic fuels. To understand the economic implications of increased coupling of the road transport and electricity sectors, an integrated multi-sectoral partial-equilibrium investment and dispatch model is developed for the European electricity and road transport sectors, linked by an energy transformation module to endogenously account for, e.g., increasing electricity consumption and ﬂexibility provision from electric vehicles and power-to-x systems. The model is applied to analyze the eﬀects of sector-speciﬁc CO2 reduction targets on the vehicle, electricity and ptx technology mix as well as trade ﬂows of ptx fuels in European countries from 2020 to 2050. The results show that, by 2050, the fuel shares of electricity and ptx fuels in the European road transport sector reach 37% and 27%, respectively, creating an additional electricity demand of 1200 TWh in Europe. To assess the added value of the integrated modeling approach, an additional analysis is performed in which all endogenous ties between sectors are removed. The results show that by decoupling the two sectors, the total system costs may be signiﬁcantly overestimated and the production costs of ptx fuels may be inaccurately approximated, which may aﬀect the merit order of decarbonization options.
R42|What price to relieve the gridlock? A non-technical guide to the road pricing implementation debate|The roading system in New Zealand is essential and its economic importance is clear. At any time of the day or night you might see different activities associated with construction, tourism, services, manufacturing and agriculture.This takes on new significance as we decarbonise the economy. Road transport is important not only because the annual resources used dwarf other transport modes, but because it also connects other transport modes. The contribution to the growth of the New Zealand economy of transport is not only vital for moving goods around but it is also a substantial GDP contributor. Total sales of road transport industry activity to the rest of the economy is around $8.3 billion. The share of GDP is roughly 1.5% or $3.5 billion (March year 2016). In this brief paper, we will examine: The characteristics of the road network (size of the network and impacts of the status quo) The basic economic approach to road pricing (it’s about how deep the road is, how wide it is, and the consequences of using the road) How others have approached road pricing The implications of introducing road pricing approaches (including implementation, pricing methods, effects and impacts, and traps to be avoided) and Present some conclusions.
R42|Vehicle-to-Grid. Impacts on the electricity market and consumer cost of electric vehicles|Higher battery storage capacity in electric vehicles (EV) can potentially serve two purposes: First, the larger the capacity, the less need for inconvenient recharging during long trips. Second, the larger the capacity, the larger the potential gains from vehicle-to-grid (V2G) electricity supply during peak prices or during periods of imbalance. We present an analytical model for the intertwinement of the consumers’ choice of battery capacity and the potential for supplying power to the electricity market. We show that V2G increases the consumers’ choice of battery capacity, and it may reduce the cost of owning an EV vis-à-vis a traditional car. Furthermore, V2G alleviates the capacity pressure on peak hours, and thereby reduces the need for investment in backup power, saving social costs. Based on a future scenario for the Belgian electricity market, we provide a numerical illustration indicating that the savings may be substantial.
R42|Participatory Value Evaluation: a novel method to evaluate future urban mobility investments|Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) is a widely applied economic appraisal tool to support the planning and decision-making process for transport projects. However, in the planning literature CBA has been criticized for at least three reasons: 1) CBA focuses on traditional transport system related planning goals and poorly considers the broader goals of urban transport planning such as social equity; 2) CBA corrodes and degrades the forward looking nature of the planning proficiency. The instrument can be conceived as a backward looking methodology as it assumes that people’s past decisions in a (private) market setting reflect their normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system; 3) CBA fails to recognize the specific (local) features of the problem which a transport project aspires to solve as practical CBA studies use generic price tags to value impacts of a transport project. Participatory Value Evaluation (PVE) is a novel evaluation approach specifically designed to overcome these criticisms while preserving the positive aspects that CBA brings to planning. This paper illustrates the PVE method with a case study on the evaluation of a transport investment scheme of the Transport Authority Amsterdam. In total 2,498 citizens participated in the PVE. We find that projects with the highest social value focus on safety and improvements for cyclists and pedestrians, whereas projects that focus on reducing travel times for car users have lower value. Moreover, we establish that PVE captures citizens’ preferences towards broader goals of transport planning such as improving health and the environment, fostering city cycling as well as the inclusion of ethical considerations such as spatial equality. PVE also allows for the inclusion of citizens’ normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system and local characteristics of the transport problem/solution.
R42|Silk Road Transport Corridors: Assessment of Trans-EAEU Freight Traffic Growth Potential|This report, prepared with the participation of experts from the Institute of the Economy and Transport Development, presents the results of quantitative assessment of freight traffic growth prospects along the China–EAEU–EU axis. The report provides a description of general trends affecting development of freight transport subject to commodity structure and mode of transport. Special attention is paid to factors driving changes in freight traffic. The authors present their view of the impact that freight rates have on the metrics of freight traffic being rechannelled to EAEU transport infrastructure and the operation of certain factors, such as regularity (rhythmicity) and timeframes of cargo deliveries. The final part of the report offers an assessment of additional freight traffic which may be attracted to transport routes along the China–EAEU–EU axis, in the short and long term.
R42|Belt and Road Transport Corridors: Barriers and Investments|The report presents an analysis of the impact that international freight traffic barriers have on logistics, transit potential, and development of transport corridors traversing EAEU member states. Restrictions discussed in this report include infrastructural (transport and logistical infrastructure), border/customs-related, and administrative/legal barriers. The authors also provide the recommendations regarding removal of barriers that hamper international freight traffic along the China-EAEU-EU axis.
R42|Restructuring the Chinese Freight Railway: Two Scenarios|Twenty years of debate regarding the restructuring of the Chinese freight railway have failed to yield a consensus. Early policy statements favoring the creation of above-the-rail competition over a monopoly infrastructure – the “European” model of rail restructuring – have broadened into a lively policy and scholarly debate that includes as an alternative the division of the system into competing vertically integrated railways – the “Americas” model of restructuring. To date, however, there have been no tangible reform steps beyond organizational restructuring, the construction of new coal railroads, some with private-sector participation, and the introduction of scheduled service, especially for containers, between China and Europe. In this paper we argue in favor of the Americas model as a basis for restructuring and offer two alternative scenarios for the creation of multiple vertically integrated freight railways. Both plans enable competition between independent firms and routes for import/export traffic, one a southern, One Belt/One Road path, the other a northern path via the Trans-Siberian Railway.
R42|Econometric modelling of the link between investment and electricity consumption in Ghana|The study examines the long run effect of investment (proxied by gross fixed capital formation) on electricity consumption for Ghana, for the period 1971-2011, by employing annual time series secondary data from World Bank database (World development indicator). The Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests were used to analyse the stationarity features of the data used in levels and in their first differences. The empirical verification was done using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL). The findings of the study indicate the data used are non-stationary in levels, however, stationary in their first difference. Investment and electricity consumption are cointegrated according to the cointegration test performed. There are both stable short run and long run relationship between investment and electricity consumption. Investment is an appropriate policy tool for electricity consumption management in both short run and long run. Further studies in the area of stationarity with structural breaks, cointegration with structural breaks, causality analysis, and multivariate modelling of investment-electricity consumption link is worth doing since the current study did not consider these issues.
R42|Can product service systems support electric vehicle adoption?|Plug-in electric vehicles are seen as a promising option to reduce oil dependency, greenhouse gas emissions, particulate matter pollution, nitrogen oxide emissions and noise caused by individual road transportation. But how is it possible to foster diffusion of plug-in electric vehicles? Our research focuses on the question whether e-mobility product service systems (i.e. plug-in electric vehicles, interconnected charging infrastructure as well as charging platform and additional services) are supportive to plug-in electric vehicle adoption in professional environments. Our user oriented techno-economic analysis of costs and benefits is based on empirical data originating from 109 organizational fleets participating in a field trial in south-west Germany with in total 327 plug-in electric vehicles and 181 charging points. The results show that organizations indicate a high willingness to pay for e-mobility product service systems. Organizations encounter non-monetary benefits, which on average overcompensate the current higher total cost of ownership of plug-in electric vehicles compared to internal combustion engine vehicles. However, the willingness to pay for e-mobility charging infrastructure and services alone is currently not sufficient to cover corresponding actual costs. The paper relates the interconnected charging infrastructure solutions under study to the development of the internet of things and smarter cities and draws implications on this development.
R42|Incentivizing smart charging: Modeling charging tariffs for electric vehicles in German and French electricity markets|Over the past few years, registration figures of plug-in electric vehicles have increased rapidly in industrialized countries. This could cause considerable mid- to long-term effects on electricity markets. To tackle potential challenges specific to electric power systems, we develop a load-shift-incentivizing electricity tariff that is suitable for electric vehicle users and analyze the tariff scheme in three parts. First, acceptance is analyzed based on surveys conducted among fleet managers and electric vehicle users. Corresponding results are used to calibrate the tariff. Secondly, load flexibilities of electric vehicle charging are used in an agent-based electricity market simulation model of the French and German wholesale electricity markets to simulate corresponding market impacts. Thirdly, the charging manager’s (‘aggregator’) business model is analyzed. Our results reveal that the tariff is highly suitable for incentivizing vehicle users to provide load flexibilities, which consequently increase the contribution margins of the charging managers. The main drawback is the potential for ‘avalanche effects’ on wholesale electricity markets increasing charging mangers’ expenditures, especially in France.
R42|Finland Needs New Ways of Financing Transport Infrastructure|Abstract Motor fuel tax revenue is likely to decrease in the coming years because of the shift to electric cars. At the same time, self-driving cars and so-called smart mobility -services require new type of investments into road infrastructure. The concentration of population in urban centres also adds to the investment needs. In other words, investment needs for transport infrastructure are increasing while the tax revenue generated by road traffic is decreasing. To tackle this challenge, Finland should start preparing a road fee system based on a modern positioning technology. A well-designed road fee system would allow for congestion charges thereby also helping urban planning. We should also increase property taxes to tax a higher share of land and house value increases due to transport infrastructure investments. Public-private-partnerships may also be useful in transport infrastructure investments. The fact that the government can usually borrow at a lower rate than private businesses does not imply that private financing is more expensive. This is because in a public-private-partnership, the private sector is expected to bear some of the risks.
R42|High-Speed Railway, Market Access, and Economic Growth|We establish a general equilibrium trade model and adopt the “market access” approach to measure the impact of the high-speed railway (HSR) network on the economic growth of 110 of the main prefecture-level cities of the People’s Republic of China, for which we manually collect the pairwise travel distances and railway speeds to calculate market access. The empirical results show that the launch of the HSR exerts significant positive effects on growth. Specifically, a 1% increase in market access leads to an increase in real income of 0.123% (controlling the region fixed effect) or 0.121% (controlling the province fixed effect). Counterfactual econometric analysis indicates that, if all the HSR were removed in 2015, the market access would fall by an average of 76.2% and the aggregate real income would decline by up to 9.4%. The growth effect of the HSR varies across cities, and the HSR has a more prominent impact on services than on manufacturing. The conclusion remains valid after a series of robustness tests.
R42|Mobility in Cities: Distributional Impact Analysis of Transportation Improvement in SÃ£o Paulo Metropolitan Region|This paper evaluates the impacts of transportation investments/policies using a spatial computable general equilibrium (SCGE) model integrated to a travel demand model. In order to enhance our understanding of the distributional impacts of transportation improvements in Brazilian cities, we simulate the impact of different types of mobility investments in the SÃ£o Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR). To explore further the income effects of infrastructure investments, we also conduct microsimulation exercises integrated to the SCGE results. We look at 10 different scenarios, ranging from a series of infrastructure-related interventions â€“ considering the expansion of the mass-transit public transportation network â€“ to policies that focus on monetary disincentives to the use of cars. The simulations results suggest trade-offs between efficiency and equity.
R42|Public-Private Partnership for Cross-border Infrastructure Development|Cross-border infrastructure networks are critical for improving regional connectivity, their financing has however been challenging. This paper examines whether Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) may contribute to their development and reviews experience with this type of financing arrangements in the energy, transport and telecommunication sectors. By involving several countries, cross-border projects face specific challenges as these projects are by nature more complex, face augmented political risks and necessitate higher level of coordination. To support countries in financing cross-border projects, the paper studies these challenges in detail. It also highlights the policy actions required to achieve enhanced regional connectivity. It stresses, for instance, the importance of supporting intergovernmental platforms where international networks can be planned, regulatory hurdles tackled and financing arrangements structured. Developing guidelines for cross-border projects would also help countries in their efforts to enhance regional connectivity. The paper concludes by recognizing the potential of PPP for these projects, though it acknowledges that supportive policy actions from participating governments will be required for their success as well as a strong high-level political backing.
R42|Die „Europäische Seidenstraße“|The English version can be found here. In dieser Studie argumentieren wir für einen „Big Push“ bei den Infrastrukturinvestitionen im größeren Europa. Wir schlagen den Bau einer „Europäischen Seidenstraße“ vor, welche die industriellen Zentren im Westen mit den bevölkerungsreichen, aber weniger entwickelten Gebieten im Osten des Kontinents verbinden und damit für mehr Wachstum und Beschäftigung sowohl kurz- als auch mittel- und langfristig sorgen soll. Im Vollausbau soll die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ auf dem Landweg rund 11.000 Kilometer auf einer Nordroute von Lissabon bis Uralsk an der russisch-kasachischen Grenze und auf einer Südroute von Mailand bis nach Wolgograd und Baku verlaufen. Kernstücke sind im Norden die Strecke von Lyon bis Moskau und im Süden von Mailand bis Konstanza. Die Südroute würde Mitteleuropa mit dem Schwarzmeerraum und den Anrainerstaaten des Kaspischen Meeres verbinden. Eine moderne Autobahn- und Hochgeschwindigkeitszugstrecke mit einer Reihe von Logistikzentren, See-, Fluss- und Flughäfen soll neue europäische Standards unter anderem in der E-Mobilität setzen. Der Vollausbau würde rund 1.000 Milliarden Euro oder rund 8% des Bruttoinlandsproduktes der auf den beiden Routen liegenden Länder ausmachen. Die Kosten relativ zur Wirtschaftsleistung der EU machen rund 7% aus. Über einen Investitionszeitraum von 10 Jahren könnte die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ entlang der Routen nach einer konservativen Schätzung zu einem Wirtschaftswachstum von durchschnittlich 3,5% und einem Anstieg der Beschäftigung von rund 2 Millionen führen. Unter günstigen Umständen und bei weiterhin anhaltenden niedrigen Zinsen kann mit einem Beschäftigungseffekt von über 7 Millionen im größeren Europa gerechnet werden. Alleine auf der Nordroute in den russischen Zentralraum könnte die verbesserte Infrastruktur der Kernstrecke bedeutende Zeitersparnisse von über 8% im Straßentransport bringen. Das wäre im Schnitt und beispielsweise auch ab Wien eine Ersparnis von rund 2,5 Stunden. Damit könnten die Länder entlang der Nordroute ihre Exporte nach Russland um über 11% steigern. Dies würde zusätzliche Exporte von über 12,5 Milliarden Euro bedeuten. Die österreichische Exportwirtschaft würde ganz besonders von diesen Infrastrukturmaßnahmen profitieren. Österreichs Russland-Exporte würden um über 14% ansteigen. Das sind rund 330 Millionen Euro. Die Baumaßnahmen bringen Österreich 34.000 Arbeitsplätze. Unter günstigen Umständen könnten bis zu 121.000 neue Jobs in Österreich geschaffen werden. English Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
R42|A ‘European Silk Road’|The German version can be found here. In this study we argue for a ‘Big Push’ in infrastructure investments in greater Europe. We propose the building of a European Silk Road, which connects the industrial centres in the west with the populous, but less developed regions in the east of the continent and thereby is meant to generate more growth and employment in the short term as well as in the medium and long term. After its completion, the European Silk Road would extend overland around 11,000 kilometres on a northern route from Lisbon to Uralsk on the Russian-Kazakh border and on a southern route from Milan to Volgograd and Baku. Central parts are the route from Lyon to Moscow in the north and from Milan to Constanţa in the south. The southern route would link Central Europe with the Black Sea area and the Caspian Sea littoral states. A state-of-the-art motorway and high-speed railway line with a string of logistics centres, seaports, river ports and airports shall set new European standards, among others in e-mobility. The full extension would constitute around EUR 1,000 billion or approximately 8% of the gross domestic product of the countries situated along its two routes. The costs relative to the EU’s economic output amount to about 7%. According to a conservative estimate, the European Silk Road could lead to an economic growth of 3.5% on average and an increase in employment of around 2 million along its routes in the course of an investment period of 10 years. Under favourable circumstances and at continued low interest rates, an employment creation of over 7 million can be expected in greater Europe. The improved infrastructure of the key route could yield significant time savings of over 8% in road transport on the northern route into the central region of Russia alone. On average this would save approximately 2.5 hours, for instance from Vienna. Thus the countries along the northern route would be able to increase their exports to Russia by more than 11%. This would imply additional exports of over EUR 12.5 billion. The Austrian export industry would particularly benefit from these infrastructural measures. Austria’s exports to Russia would rise by over 14%. This corresponds to about EUR 330 million. The construction projects would create 34,000 jobs in Austria. Under favourable conditions, up to 121,000 new jobs could be created in Austria. Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
R42|Mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia: desigualdades territoriales en el acceso a los servicios de salud|A pesar de los esfuerzos realizados para reducir la mortalidad neonatal en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, y de la implementación del Seguro Universal Materno Infantil (SUMI), los datos revelan que el progreso ha sido más lento que lo logrado en cuanto a la reducción de la mortalidad infantil en general. En ese contexto, el interés principal de esta investigación es definir las características de la mortalidad neonatal en el país. El estudio parte del análisis econométrico de los datos de la Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (ENDSA) de 2008. El objetivo es visualizar cómo el lugar de procedencia incide en el riesgo de muerte del recién nacido. Los hallazgos revelan que, en el Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, el riesgo de muerte neonatal está condicionado por el acceso a los servicios de salud, debido a las disparidades territoriales a nivel urbano y rural. Estas disparidades se traducen en barreras de acceso económicas, geográficas y de exclusión que disminuyen la equidad en el acceso y la utilización de los servicios de salud, refuerzan los determinantes sociales que inciden en la muerte del recién nacido y limitan el acceso a intervenciones oportunas y adecuadas en la atención materno-neonatal.
R42|Please in my back yard: the private and public benefits of a new tram line in Florence|Urban agglomerations, revealing the highest levels of productivity and growth, raise severe congestion problems. This issue can be mitigated by the construction of transport facilities allowing a higher centre-suburbs permeability. The returns of similar infrastructures are under debate, especially in cities characterized by huge artistic and urbanistic constraints. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the private and public benefits of a new tramline recently built in Florence. We apply the synthetic control method on metropolitan micro-zones in order to estimate the impact of the facility on house prices in the suburbs located close to the tram stops. We also estimate a hedonic pricing model on individual bids downloaded from a popular real estate agency. The results, coherent in both approaches, demonstrate that houses located in proximity to the new tram network register a price increase of 200-300 euros per square meter, the 7-10 per cent of the total value. The study also confirms the presence of public benefits related to the facility in terms of accidents reduction and improved air quality.
R42|Can Public Transportation Reduce Accidents? Evidence From The Introduction Of Late-Night Buses In Israeli Cities|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, 1956 to 2017|The Congressional Budget Office regularly documents trends in public spending for transportation and water infrastructure. There are six types of infrastructure that are paid for largely by the public sector: highways, mass transit and rail, aviation, water transportation, water resources, and water utilities.
R42|Effects of contract governance on public private partnership (PPP) performance|Using the basic instruments of governance as highlighted in the transaction cost economics literature, this paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns. Moreover, the results demonstrate that changes in administrative controls also influence outcomes. Stricter the control, better is the efficiency in the desired outcomes. The empirical findings could be useful to the policymakers for designing better contracts for the road as well as other infrastructure related sectors.
R42|Modelling Electric Vehicles as an Abatement Technology in a Hybrid CGE Model|We present a novel methodology to quantify the social costs and benefits (net social costs) of electric vehicles as an endogenous, demand-driven abatement technology in a general equilibrium framework. This new costing approach relates general equilibrium effects resulting from an increased market penetration of electric vehicles to the external environmental and health effects of the corresponding change in emissions. To this end, we develop a hybrid model combining a computable general equilibrium (CGE) with a discrete choice (DC) model that is capable of depicting an endogenous demand-driven uptake of alternative fuel vehicles. The discrete choice model of the consumer purchase decision between conventional, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and electric vehicles is directly integrated into the CGE model. This hybrid CGE-DC model features a detailed accounting of vehicle fleet development, including yearly numbers of vehicle purchases and cohort depreciation. It depicts nine households differentiated by the degree of urbanization and education, accounts for detailed consumer preferences for the purchase of a passenger vehicle and mode choice decisions. The hybrid CGE-DC model is additionally hard-linked to a bottom-up module for elektricity production by several technologies to provide input for an established impact pathway analysis to quantify the external costs relating to the changed composition of the vehicle fleet and technologies to generate electricity. We apply this methodology to Austria as an empirical example, considering current measures and trends for the uptake of electric vehicles into the vehicle fleet. In particular, we quantify the net social costs of additional measures to foster the introduction of electromobility that are part of the current policy discussion in Austria, and thus provide a blueprint for further application in different national contexts.
R42|De samlade effektbedömningarnas roll i framtagandet av Trafikverkets förslag till nationell plan|Vad som påverkar vilka infrastrukturinvesteringar som ingår i planer har studerats flera gånger, såväl i Sverige som utomlands. I denna studie studerar vi vilka egenskaper hos namngivna investeringar, så som de beskrivs i Trafikverkets samlade effektbedömningar (SEBarna), som påverkar vilka namngivna investeringar Trafikverket tar med i sitt förslag till nationell plan. Vi studerar även hur de samlade effektbedömningarna har använts av planerarna i arbetet med att ta fram planförslaget. Vi finner att den samhällsekonomiska analysen verkar ha påverkat objekts sannolikhet att tas med i planförslaget, både den samhällsekonomiska kalkylen och de icke-värderade miljöeffekterna. Trafikverket uppger också att de använder den samhällsekonomiska analysen som ett redskap för att sålla bort olönsamma åtgärder. Bedömningarna i de andra delarna av SEB:en, fördelnings- och måluppfyllelseanalysen, verkar däremot inte påverka vilka objekt som föreslås. I intervjuer framkom att dessa delar, som beslutsunderlag betraktat, har flera brister. Att vi inte finner att fördelnings- och måluppfyllelseanalysen påverkat vilka objekt Trafikverket föreslagit till planen behöver emellertid inte innebära att dessa aspekter inte har påverkat vilka åtgärder som föreslagits för planen. Tvärtom verkar de aspekter som utvärderats i måluppfyllelseanalysen haft betydelse i alternativgenereringen, och alltså påverkat vilka åtgärder som utvärderats.
R42|Do small cities need more public transport subsidies than big cities?|This paper compares the optimal public transport subsidies for a representative bus corridor in a small city (Karlstad) and in a big city (Stockholm) in Sweden. In the smaller city, the optimization of the fare is more important for welfare, whereas in the larger city, the frequency is more important. Moreover, the optimal subsidy is higher in small than in large cities because of larger positive externalities of reduced waiting and schedule delay costs, whereas the negative crowding externalities are larger in the large city. The bus subsidy is important for the income distribution in the small city.
R42|Satisfaction with crowding in public transport|Customer Satisfaction Surveys conducted among public transport passengers over 15 years in Stockholm show that the satisfaction with crowding has been and is low. Surprisingly, however, crowding does not seem to be important for the passengers’ total satisfaction with the public transport service, not even for passengers on the most highly crowded bus services in central Stockholm. A possible reason is that crowding is not perceived as part of the service delivered by the public transport provider. Using less aggregated data than previous studies we also find that the performance of the attributes crowding, reliability and frequency influences satisfaction with these attributes. Moreover, a general result is that when comparing different bus lines and public transport modes, the satisfaction with an attribute is influenced by the performance of this attribute, while the importance level is much more stable across bus lines and public transport modes. There is also a trend increase in the satisfaction with many attributes (but not for crowding), while the importance is more stable over time.
R42|The changes of activity-travel participation across gender, life-cycle, and generations in Sweden over 30 years|Customer Satisfaction Surveys conducted among public transport passengers over 15 years in Stockholm show that the satisfaction with crowding has been and is low. Surprisingly, however, crowding does not seem to be important for the passengers’ total satisfaction with the public transport service, not even for passengers on the most highly crowded bus services in central Stockholm. A possible reason is that crowding is not perceived as part of the service delivered by the public transport provider. Using less aggregated data than previous studies we also find that the performance of the attributes crowding, reliability and frequency influences satisfaction with these attributes. Moreover, a general result is that when comparing different bus lines and public transport modes, the satisfaction with an attribute is influenced by the performance of this attribute, while the importance level is much more stable across bus lines and public transport modes. There is also a trend increase in the satisfaction with many attributes (but not for crowding), while the importance is more stable over time.
R42|Car type preferences among private buyers and company car owners as related to climate and transport policy in Sweden|Dedicated to show climate leadership, Sweden has committed to cut 70% of greenhouse gas emissions in the domestic transport sector by 2030 as compared to levels in 2010 (except flights). The aim of this study was to quantify car type choice among private buyers and individuals with cars provided as a fringe benefit, and to investigate the impacts of retrospective policy scenarios using Sweden as a case study. Models were developed using revealed preferences data relating to car attributes and buyer socioeconomics. The company car type choice model reflected both company policy restrictions and employee preferences. The results indicated that range and safety were crucial factors for the widespread introduction of electric cars and plug-in hybrids. Company car owners were more inclined to choose cars with climate friendly fuels than private buyers. Average CO2 emissions per car were however similar in the two groups, which might relate to a stronger preference for heavier and larger cars among company car holders, in combination with the weights-based ‘Clean car’ definition in Sweden. A ‘Clean car’ restriction was company policy for 7.5% of employees, among whom the share of diesel cars was 88%. Policy scenario modeling results further indicated that the impact of recent climate and transport policies has been small: the most notable effect was a policy of reduced fringe benefits taxation on alternative fuels, worth up to €1,100 annually, which resulted in 0.7 % lower average CO2/km per car. For private buyers, a ‘Super Clean Car’ premium, worth ca € 2,000 – € 4,000, had a 0.4 % effect on the average emissions per car, according to models. This effect was twice as high as that for a five year tax-exemption for ‘Clean cars’, worth ca €200 annually for private buyers. Apparently, in order to substantially change the fleet of new cars in Sweden there is a need for tougher transport policies related to climate change mitigation.
R42|Agglomeration, productivity and the role of transport system improvements|We explore how the transport improvements impact agglomeration and thereby productivity in mid-Sweden including Stockholm 1995-2006. We measure agglomeration, and changes in agglomeration in response to transport improvements, based on travel times. This is a more accurate measure of agglomeration than previously used and also necessary for understanding how governments can impact agglomeration, and thereby productivity, by transport investments. We regress temporal changes in wages on temporal changes in agglomeration applying a FE estimator. We deal with the potential endogeneity using a novel instrument variable. Our best estimates of the agglomeration elasticity on productivity lie within the interval 0.028-0.035.
R42|Distributional Effects of Public Transport Subsidies|We analyse the distribution of transit subsidies across population groups in Stockholm. We develop a novel methodology that takes into account that the subsidy per passenger varies across transit links, since production costs and load factors vary. With this, we calculate the subsidy per trip in the transit network and analyse the distribution of subsidies across population groups. The average subsidy rate in Stockholm is 44%, but the variation across trips turns out to be large: while 34% of the trips are not subsidized at all but generates a profit, 16% of the trips have a subsidy rate higher than 2/3. We calculate the concentration index to explore the distribution of subsidies across income groups. The average subsidy per person is similar for all income groups, except for the top income quintile. This holds not only for the current flat-fare system, but also for distance-based fares and fares with a constant subsidy rate. Transit subsidies is hence not effective as a redistribution policy in Stockholm. The largest systematic variation we find is across residential areas: the average subsidy per person is five times higher in the peripheral areas of the region compared to the regional core, and the subsidy per trip is ten times higher.
R42|Effects of Contract Governance on Public Private Partnership (PPP) Performance|This paper empirically examines the impact of differences in contract attributes on project outcomes. The hypothesis is to test whether better incentive structure and stricter administrative controls lead to more efficient project outcomes. It compares two sets of contracts (called as toll and annuity) from Indian PPP road projects which are designed for the same task and implemented under the similar conditions, but have some differences in the contract governance attributes. It carries out this exercise using data from more than 150 projects. The empirical findings highlight how instruments of governance influence the degree of efficiency in achieving the desired results. For instance, the annuity model, that has tighter budget constraint (i.e. better incentive structure) than the toll model, performs better in terms of minimizing cost and time overruns.
R42|Urban Transport Systems in Latin America and the Caribbean: Challenges and Lessons Learned|This paper discusses the transportation challenges that urban areas in Latin America and the Caribbean face and reviews the causal evidence on the impact brought by different urban transport system interventions implemented around the world. The objective is to highlight the main lessons learned and identify knowledge gaps to guide the design and evaluation of future transport investments. The review shows that causal studies have been concentrated in certain areas and that an important number have been carried out in developed countries. Empirical challenges due to the non-random placement of these interventions and their possible effects over the entire transport network might explain the reduced amount of causal evaluations. A large part of the literature has focused on the impact of transport systems on housing values, finding overall increases in prices and rents, but with results highly dependent on the quality and perceived permanency of the system. There are few studies that explore socioeconomic effects, and those available have emphasized employment access. There are almost no studies exploring displacement effects, which should be examined to better understand the social inclusion role of transport systems. New avenues of research are emerging that exploit non-traditional sources of data, such as big data. Moreover, studies looking at ways to improve the operational efficiency of systems and those seeking to promote behavioral changes in transport users.
R42|Economic impacts of economic corridors in Mongolia : an application of IDE-GSM|In this paper, we tried to estimate the economic impacts of the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Economic Corridor 4a, 4b, and 4c projects, which enhance the connectivity between Mongolia and its surrounding countries, using a computational general equilibrium model based on spatial economics. The estimation results show that the economic impacts for Corridor 4b, which connects China and Russia through Ulaanbaatar, the capital of Mongolia, are the highest compared with the other two corridors. Apart from Mongolia, Corridor 4b also economically impacts China, EU, and Russia; thus, cooperation among these four parties might be a suitable arrangement for development. The evaluation of large-scale economic development of corridors is not very easy without proper evaluation tools.
R42|Analysis of economic potentials of infrastructure developments in and around Bhutan|This paper conducts a simulation analysis of a spatial economic model in Southern Asia, with a particular focus on Bhutan. It indicates the potential impacts of different infrastructure investments on regional economies in Bhutan and the neighboring countries. The results reveal that road infrastructure investments within Bhutan will likely increase regional accessibility, reshape the monocentric structure of the economy, and induce migration, thereby increasing the real wage for most of Bhutan’s regions. Furthermore, road infrastructure investments within India have some spillover effects on Bhutan, which can be magnified by further reduction in non-tariff barriers. The comparison of the different scenarios indicates that the combination of projects may generate synergy effects.
R42|Does Trafic Management Matter? Evaluating Congestion Effect of Odd-Even Policy in Jakarta|Travel demand restriction is getting popular to disentangle trafic jams in heavily congested urban areas. The policy is easy to implement while reduction in congestion level is perceived to be substantial. We test this hypothesis by evaluating the impact of odd-even policy on congestion level in Jakarta, one of most severe congested cities in the world. Using hourly travel time data at road segment level drawn from GoogleMaps, the odd-even policy reduces the travel time by 3% on average after a month of its implementation. The effect is higher during weekend and at afternoon peak-hour window. Yet, the effect vanishes after the third week of policy introduction. Our result then sheds an indication of ineffective transport demand restriction in Jakarta.
R42|Driving time, productivity, and the Fundamental Law of Road Congestion|Road congestion is a negative externality associated to automobile use and can negatively affects drivers’ utility in several directions, such as delay time and wasted fuel, but also can have a negative impact on aggregate productivity. This paper develops a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium model to study the interactions between roads, traffic, congestion and productivity over the business cycle. In our model households receive services from vehicles, depending on the flow kilometers driving and on the stock of cars, and they do not take into account their own impact on congestion, which also depends on the stock of roads. Following a positive aggregate productivity shock, traffic density and congestion tend to rise, so dampening its positive effects on aggregate activity. The model is then used to study the process behind the so-called ”Fundamental Law of Highways Congestion”, which states that an increase in the stock of roads produces a traffic density rise of same proportion, thus leaving congestion unaffected in the long run. Our model economy reproduce a rise in output in response to a road capacity expansion and predicts a traffic flow elasticity of 0.172, as a direct consequence of the positive impact of the higher stock of roads on economic activity. Finally, we derive a Pigouvian tax schedule that internalizes the social costs of congestion.
R42|Two Empirical Tests of Hypercongestion|There is a widely-held view that as demand for travel goes up, this decreases not only speed but also the capacity of the road system, a phenomenon known as hypercongestion. We revisit this idea. We propose two empirical tests motivated by previous analytical models of hypercongestion. Our first test uses instrumental variables to empirically isolate the effect of travel demand on highway capacity. Our second test uses an event study analysis to measure changes in highway capacity at the onset of queue formation. We apply these tests to three highway bottlenecks in California for which detailed data on traffic flows and vehicles speeds are available. Neither test shows evidence of a reduction in highway capacity at any site during periods of high demand. Across sites and specifications we have sufficient statistical power to rule out small reductions in highway capacity. This lack of evidence of hypercongestion has important implications for travel supply and demand models and raises questions about highway metering lights and other traffic interventions aimed at regulating demand.
R42|Optimum Stop Spacing for Accessibility|"This paper describes the connection between stop spacing and person-weighted accessibility for a transit route. Population distribution is assumed to be uniform along the line, but at each station, demand drops with distance from the station. The study reveals that neither short nor excessive stop spacings are efficient in providing accessibility. For the configuration of each transit route, an optimum stop spacing exists that maximizes accessibility. Parameters including transit vehicle acceleration, deceleration, top speed, dwell time, and pedestrian walking speed affect level of accessibility achiev- able, and differ in their effect on accessibility results. The findings provide an anchor of reference both for the planning of future transit systems, and for transit operators to make operational changes to system design parameters that improve accessibility in a cost-effective manner. The study technically justifies the ""rule of thumb"" in setting different stop spacings for metro, streetcars, and other different transit services. Different types of transit vary in their ability to provide accessibility, slower moving streetcar (tram) type urban rails are inherently disadvantaged in that respect. Thus the type of transit service to be built should be of particular concern, if the transit is to effectively serve its intended population."
R42|Effect of timetable change on job accessibility|Accessibility is often not a performance measure for transit services. This study is conducted following the introduction of new timetables which intended to improve passenger throughput for Sydney’s transit services, but resulted in major delays experienced by passengers thereafter. Accessibility at 30-minute travel threshold before and after the timetable change are calculated between 8 to 9 am, to measure accessibility benefits, if any, from the new timetable. The results show a lack of systematic improvement by the new table, and downgrade of accessibility on average. The overall person-weighted accessibility dropped by 3%, from 45,070 to 43,730, and 63.3% of the population’s access to jobs would be adversely affected after its implementation. This study advocates for the inclusion of accessibility metrics into transit performance measures to connect with people who use transit.
R42|How to improve Norway’s Transport-Infrastructure Investment|Norway makes substantial public investment in transport and this has intensified in recent years. There is potentially large economic benefit from such investment, particularly as good transport infrastructure can help Norway’s transition away from oil-related activities. However, realising these gains requires sound processes for selecting and delivering projects. This paper assesses the investment process from initial proposals through evaluation, discussion, selection, approval, implementation, and ex post evaluation. It finds that, although the policy process at each stage is clear, and the planning framework has central oversight, final choices of project are often sub-optimal. The paper identifies a need for stronger top-down influence in the planning process and more influence of economic-efficiency considerations in project selection. It also calls for efforts to broaden ex post assessment of transport investment projects and reduction in project delays.
R42|The political economy of transportation investment|Will politics lead to over-building or under-building of transportation projects? In this paper, we develop a model of infrastructure policy in which politicians overdo things that have hidden costs and underperform tasks whose costs voters readily perceive. Consequently, national funding of transportation leads to overspending, since voters more readily perceive the upside of new projects than the future taxes that will be paid for distant highways. Yet when local voters are well-informed, the highly salient nuisances of local construction, including land taking and noise, lead to under-building. This framework explains the decline of urban mega-projects in the US (Altshuler and Luberoff, 2003) as the result of increasingly educated and organized urban voters. Our framework also predicts more per capita transportation spending in low-density and less educated areas, which seems to be empirically correct.
R42|Can Public Transportation Reduce Accidents? Evidence From The Introduction Of Late-Night Buses In Israeli Cities|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Reassessing Railroads and Growth: Accounting for Transport Network Endogeneity|Motivated by the seminal work of Robert Fogel on U.S. railroads, I reformulate Fogel's original counter- factual history question on 19th century U.S. economic growth without railroads by treating the transport network as an endogenous equilibrium object. I quantify the effect of the railroad on U.S. growth from its introduction in 1830 to 1861. Specifically, I estimate the output loss in a counterfactual world with- out the technology to build railroads, but retaining the ability to construct the next-best alternative of canals. My main contribution is to endogenize the counterfactual canal network through a decentralized network formation game played by profit-maximizing transport firms. I perform a similar exercise in a world without canals. My counterfactual differs from Fogel's in three main ways: I develop a structural model of transport link costs that takes heterogeneity in geography into account to determine the cost of unobserved links, the output distribution is determined in the model as a function of transport costs, and the transport network is endogenized as a stable result of a particular network formation game. I find that railroads and canals are strategic complements, not strategic substitutes. Therefore, the output loss can be quite acute when one or the other is missing from the economy. In the set of Nash stable networks, relative to the factual world, the median value of output is 45% lower in the canals only counterfactual and 49% lower in the railroads only counterfactual. With only one of the transportation technologies available, inequality in output across cities would have been lower in variance terms but sharply higher in terms of the maximum-minimum gap. Such a stark output loss is due to two main mechanisms: inefficiency of the decentralized equilibrium due to network externalities and complementarities due to spatial heterogeneity in costs across the two transport modes.
R42|Institutional Architecture for Financing Pan-Asian Infrastructure Connectivity|Asia, particularly its major economies has witnessed slower growth in recent years. To make Asia more economically sustainable and resilient against external shocks to recover from the falling growth, most regional economies need to rebalance their export-oriented (mostly to advanced economies) production and growth towards Asian markets and regional demand, and trade-driven growth through increased intraregional infrastructure connectivity and regional economic integration. In 1992, a pan-Asian transport connectivity was initiated through, Asian Highway Network and Trans-Asian Railways Network. In 2015, an ambitious pan-Asian connectivity initiative, namely “One Belt, One Road” (ancient silk road) initiative has been proposed. This initiative plans to create an economic zone covering Asia, Europe and Africa. To successfully promote and finance greater physical connectivity, at the pan-Asian, sub-regional and national levels, Asia will require a strong and appropriate institutional framework for effective coordination, cooperation and collaboration among national, subregional, and region-wide institutions as well as other stakeholders. This paper discusses the prospects and challenges facing Asian connectivity as well as infrastructure financing needs in Asia. It also examines the nature and characteristics of existing and new institutions and the emerging role of regional and international institutions for enhancing Asian connectivity. Lastly, it proposes an institutional architecture consisting of new “Asian Infrastructure Coordination Facility (AICF)” involving major stakeholders for building a seamless pan-Asian connectivity through bilateral, regional and international cooperation, partnership and collaboration in infrastructure development.
R42|Domestic transport costs, Canada, and the Panama Canal|By reducing transport costs infrastructure can impact wages, the distribution of population and welfare among other important variables. In this paper I exploit a natural experiment provided by the opening of the Panama Canal and intercoastal cargo routes connecting the west and east coasts of Canada through the canal to examine the causal impact of a reduction of domestic trade costs. The particular characteristics of this setting allow me to estimate the causal impact without recurring to instrumental variable strategies. The estimates are also not confounded with the Keynesian effect of building new infrastructure since no infrastructure was actually setup in Canada. Using least cost path routes along the Canadian transport grid I determine treated municipalities. The paper documents the positive impact of the reduction of transport costs on population and the value of real property but a negative impact on nominal wages. I then use a simplified version of an economic geography model with perfect mobility of workers to compute domestic trade shares between Canadian municipalities and productivities at the municipal level. I use these empirical results and the model, to quantify general equilibrium changes in wages, population and trade shares triggered by the reduction in domestic transport costs. Finally, I show that the opening of intercoastal shipping routes had a large positive welfare effect across Canadian municipalities.
R42|Revisión de gasto sector transporte|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Transporte. El ejercicio busca implementar un método permanente para analizar la eficiencia y efectividad de los recursos públicos y proveer recomendaciones. El documento contiene 4 grandes secciones. La primera hace una descripción del gasto en el sector transporte. La segunda, describe el proceso de implementación de fases y actividades de la revisión de gasto. La tercera explica los resultados de la priorización en el sector transporte y la cuarta resume las lecciones aprendidas y recomendaciones.
R42|An intermediary’s optimal geographical expansion choice under uncertainty|High transport costs to reach markets and obtaining low prices on these markets make it difficult for small-scale farmers in developing countries to market their production. Geographically isolated farmers therefore often have to rely on intermediaries to transport and sell their output on markets. To collect output from farmers, these intermediaries have to make investments while facing uncertainty due to the volatility of agricultural prices on world markets. Using real options, we establish the optimal investment strategy for an intermediary in terms of when to invest and with how many geographically dispersed farmers to contract with. We also establish how, after the initial investment, the intermediary should optimally further expand its collection area. We determine what public authorities could do to encourage the emergence of intermediaries who collect production from isolated farmers. Finally, we apply our framework to analyze investment decisions made by intermediaries in the milk sector in Senegal.
R42|Airport consolidation and the provision of air services|Airport policy involves decisions about not only the sizes of airports but how many airports should serve a given area. I test the arguments for airport consolidation by estimating the effect of the number of airports on total local traffic using US data and a historical instrument for the number of airports. Cities that are randomly allocated a larger number of airports are found to host more air traffic and flights to more destinations. Furthermore, the effect is largely due to a greater number of transit passengers, so cities with multiple airports are more likely to be chosen as airline hubs.
R42|Validation of aggregate reference forecasts for passenger transport|We have compared Swedish national forecasts for passenger transport produced from 1975 to 2009 with the actual outcomes, and we found substantial differences between forecasts of passenger kilometers by mode and actual outcomes. In forecasts produced since the early 1990s, road and air traffic growth rates have generally been overpredicted. Aggregate railway growth has been fairly accurate, but commercial long-distance railway growth has been overpredicted, and the growth of subsidized intra-regional railway travel has been underpredicted (following vast unanticipated supply increases).
R42|Are users better-off with new transit lines?|This paper studies the entry of a new competitor in a public transport network. Competitors for existing rail can be long distance buses but also the vanpool services. These new lines decrease the ridership of the existing lines and increase waiting time for its passengers. A stylized network model is used to study this potential vicious cycle. We derive sufficient conditions for this negative effect to increase overall public transport costs. The new line is only beneficial when there are relatively many users that want to use the new direct line or when the unit cost reduction is sufficiently large. Our result raises concerns with respect to the decentralized management of transit systems.
R42|How does transportation shape intrametropolitan growth? An answer from the Regional Express Rail|This paper analyzes the influence of transportation infrastructure, and in particular of the Regional Express Rail (RER), on employment and population growth in the Paris metropolitan area between 1968 and 2010. In order to make proper causal inference, we rely on historical instruments and control for all other transportation modes that could be complement or substitute to the RER. A dynamic analysis accounting for spatial heterogeneity reveals that for municipalities located less than 13 kilometers from an RER station, each kilometer closer to the station increases employment and population growth by 12% and 8% respectively. Regarding the time pattern of these effects, we find no impact of the RER expansion on employment growth during the first part of the period, while the effect on population growth appears earlier but declines over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R42|Modelling the attraction of shopping centres|Development of major shopping centres continues even though online shopping is increasing. This has implications for mode and destination choice for shopping travel and therefore also for sustainability. In this paper, we estimate models for shopping travel using an unusually rich data set of shopping attractions. We find that shopping travel is best represented in three separate models: consumables in short and long-activity segments and durables. In all of these models, we show that representing nearby attractions outside the destination zone adds to the measured attraction. For both consumables segments, the addition of secondary attractions within 2 km of the main destination adds very significantly to the explanation given by the model, but attractions within 5 km do not add anything. For durables, both 2 km and 5 km added to the model, but 2 km was slightly better. Furthermore, we find significant within-zone correlation in all three models, but are unable to find significant between-zone correlation, indicating that zone boundaries have some behavioural meaning for shopping travellers, but larger areas are not viewed in this way. Shopping attractions with a specifically Swedish impact, Systembolaget (official alcohol outlet in Sweden) and IKEA, proved to be important in all the models. These attractors work better as part of the size than as part of the utility, indicating that they appear to be separate attractors of trips, rather than as adding to the utility of other attractors.
R42|The Swedish congestion charges: ten years on: - and effects of increasing charging levels|This paper explores the effects of the Swedish congestion charges 10 years on. We find that the price elasticity of the traffic across the cordon was lower when the charging levels were increased than when they were first introduced, in Stockholm and in Gothenburg. The price elasticity was also lower when the Stockholm system was extended to include the Essinge bypass (E4/E20). The implication of these results is that adjustments in charging levels between days and seasons would have a limited effect on traffic volume. Moreover, the elasticity is substantially higher in the off-peak period than in the peak. A third finding is that the long-term elasticity is declining in Gothenburg but increasing in Stockholm. Public support is also declining in Gothenburg but increasing in Stockholm. The operating costs of the systems have declined.
R42|The role of economic analysis for investment priorities in Sweden’s transport sector|Beginning as a planning tool within the national road administration in the early 1970s, benefit-cost analysis (BCA) became a pillar of national transport policy because of strategic choices made by the national parliament. The Transport Policy Act of 1979 established marginal instead of average cost as the overarching principle for pricing of transport. The subsequent 1988 Act separated rail infrastructure from train-service provision. Both policy updates made it necessary to widen the analysis of costs to include also externalities and a foregone conclusion was that efficient investment priorities should be made based on BCA. But no one asked whether the political decision makers or the BCA models were apt to that task. This paper reviews the current state of BCA for transport infrastructure investment and considers design issues that have been and still are debated, also providing a benchmark description of how these issues have been addressed elsewhere. Moreover, the role of BCA as a platform for prioritization of investment project is reviewed.
R42|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
R42|Finansieringsmetoder för transportinfrastruktur|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Finansiering av stora infrastrukturinvesteringar|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Attityder till infrastrukturfinansiering|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|China-Kyrgyzstan railway meets IDE-GSM|The impact of connecting Kashgar, Trougart, Uzgen, and Karasuu and facilitating customs at the national border between China and Kyrgyzstan are examined by using IDE-GSM (Institute of Developing Economies, JETRO Geographical Simulation Model). We found that the railway connection has a positive impact in southern Kyrgyzstan and a negative impact in regions of northern Kyrgyzstan, neither of which are the capital city of Kyrgyzstan.
R42|Discovering the space–time dimensions of schedule padding and delay from GTFS and real-time transit data|Abstract Schedule padding is the extra time added to transit schedules to reduce the risk of delay. Where there is more random delay, there should be more schedule padding. While schedule padding is a product of transit planners, a method for detecting when and where it exists could provide valuable feedback as transit agencies continually develop their networks. By analyzing transit schedules and real-time vehicle location data at the level of stop-to-stop segments, we can locate padding in space and time and identify the places that may be most effected by stochastic delay. Such information could be used to target delay-reduction interventions such as fare prepayment or transit-only rights of way. The Toronto Transit Commission is used as a case study, and initial results suggest that highly delayed segments appear mostly in the expected, but some surprising, places.
R42|Time-declining risk-adjusted social discount rates for transport infrastructure planning|Abstract This paper proposes a social discount rate for transport infrastructure project evaluation in Germany that accounts for production efficiency, systematic traffic demand risk, as well as increasing uncertainty in the long-run. The systematic risk in infrastructure planning is measured by the sensitivity of transport volume towards GDP using cointegration analysis. In contrast to the only existing application of this model in transport economics, in this paper the systematic risk for freight transport projects is substantially higher than for passenger transport projects. Due to different systematic risk patterns, the discount rates for freight and passenger transport projects should differ as well, with the former being equal to approximately 3.5% and declining to 2.7% after 50 years, and the latter ranging between 2.0% and the risk-free rate of 1.3%. This paper focuses especially on the econometric challenges of the CAPM-like estimation of systematic risk in public transport infrastructure project assessment and is at the same time the first application to German data.
R42|Accessibility-oriented development|Local authorities worldwide have been pursuing transit-oriented development (TOD) strategies in order to increase transit ridership, curb traffic congestion, and rejuvenate urban neighborhoods. In many cities, however, development of planned sites around transit stations has been close to non-existent, due to, among other reasons, a lack of coordination between transit investments and land use at a broader spatial scale. Furthermore, while TOD considers access to transit, it often neglects the access to destinations that is provided by transit.
R42|Smeed fs Law and the Role of Hospitals in Modeling Fatalities and Traffic Accidents|We applied Smeed fs Law to Japanese prefectural data from between 1988 and 2016. We found that the coefficient for the number of vehicles was stable over the estimation period, but that the constant term decreased gradually. We decomposed fatalities per capita into fatalities per accidents and accidents per capita, and applied regression equations to the data. We conclude the following from this study. First, the relationship between fatalities per capita and the number of registered vehicles per capita was stable, which is consistent with Smeed fs Law. Second, the effects of technological advances have changed the estimated coefficients for time dummies. The role of hospitals may be difficult to incorporate into Smeed fs Law because of the complicated relationship between the distance to hospital and fatalities per capita.
R42|The transport in our time-budget|Do we save time with our faster transport modes? The answer is, no. The authors answered this question after comparing the average daily per capita transport time-use based on the 1986/87, the 1999/00, and the 2009/10 Hungarian time-budget survey. The average time-use remained between 60 and 65 minutes, same as it was in 1977. During the period studied, the share of the motor/car time-use approximately doubled in the total transport time-use, while the other modes (walking, cycling, and public transports) decreased proportionally. In the same period, there was a wide distribution in the per capita daily transport time-use data influenced by geographical destination choice (in space and time)—and by demographic (age, gender), spatial (county, settlement status), and social (activity, qualification) variables. The paper analysed the effect of the latter explanatory variables on the heterogeneity of the transport time-use. The gender and activity variables can explain motor/car time-use differences; geography and settlement status the bicycle-, and the settlement status also the public transport time-use differences. However, all the explanatory variables analysed could only explain 10% of the divergences.
R42|Defining PPP Opportunities in the Road Sector of Ukraine|The road sector is one of strategic segments of Ukrainian economy and public roads are considerable part of Ukrainian infrastructure potential. Many governments have been using PPP concerning highways and other fixed assets. Despite the successful development of the PPP/concession on construction and operation of motorway roads, the failures still happen. The inefficient project is those being prepared for a long period and still being unimplemented. The main obstacles and prerequisites for the PPP in the road sector in Ukraine are explored in this publication
R42|Manage energy/environmental footprints of travel: A proposed solution/methodology|Congestion is a growing challenge in major urban areas worldwide; a challenge that imposes enormous social and private costs to society. Despite these substantial costs, our knowledge is limited about how transportation users value choices that can reduce fuel consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG), and criteria pollutant emissions (PM2.5, NOx, CO, etc.). In this regard, I proposed the advanced traveler general information system (ATGIS), a scheme that can estimate/provide travelers with travel cost data that they currently do not have. In this paper, I explain the steps required to test, examine, and develop such a scheme for a metropolitan area.
R42|Congestion pricing|This chapter explains the basic ideas, concept and theories of congestion pricing, and then focuses on how the theoretical idea can be applied in practice. The first section gives a brief overview of the major operational urban congestion pricing schemes. The second section gives a summary of the theory of congestion pricing, stressing the points that are important for applications. The third section discusses benefits and costs in practice. The fourth section gives a summary of the vast literature of public and political opinions of congestion charges. Finally, the last section presents some speculations about the future of congestion pricing.
R42|Charging strategies for economic operations of electric vehicles in commercial applications|When substituting conventional with electric vehicles (EV) a high annual mileage is desirable from an environmental as well as an economic perspective. However, there are still significant technological limitations that need to be taken into consideration. This study presents and discusses five different charging strategies for two mobility applications executed during an early stage long-term field test from 2013 to 2015 in Germany, which main objective was to increase the utilization within the existing technological restrictions. During the field test seven EV drove more than 450,000 km. For four out of five presented charging strategies the inclusion of DC fast charging is indispensable. Based on the empirical evidence five key performance indicators (KPI) are developed. These indicators give recommendations to economically deploy EV in commercial fleets. The results demonstrate that the more predictable the underlying mobility demand and the more technical information is available the better the charging strategies can be defined. Furthermore, the results indicate that a prudent mix of conventional and DC fast charging allows a high annual mileage while at the same time limiting avoidable harmful effects on the battery.
R42|Empirical carbon dioxide emissions of electric vehicles in a French-German commuter fleet test|According to many governments electric vehicles are seen as an efficient mean to mitigate carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector. However, the energy charged causes carbon dioxide emissions in the energy sector. This study demonstrates results from measuring time-dependent electricity consumption of electric vehicles during driving and charging. The electric vehicles were used in a French-German commuter scenario between March and August 2013. The electric vehicles ran a total distance of 38,365 km. 639 individual charging events were recorded. Vehicle specific data on electricity consumption are matched to disaggregated electricity generation data with time-dependent national electricity generation mixes and corresponding carbon dioxide emissions with an hourly time resolution. Carbon dioxide emission reduction potentials of different charging strategies are identified. As carbon dioxide emission intensities change over time according to the electric power systems, specific smart charging services are a convincing strategy to reduce electric vehicle specific carbon dioxide emissions. Our results indicate that charging in France causes only about ten percent of the carbon dioxide emissions compared to Germany, where the carbon intensity is more diverse.
R42|Infrastructure and Urbanization in the People’s Republic of China|The recent experience of infrastructure investment in PRC suggests an intertwined relationship between investment, urbanization, and economic growth. In one mechanism, urbanization generates demand for infrastructure investment, which then drives economic growth via various channels including reducing transaction costs and raising productivity. Another mechanism emphasized in this paper is that infrastructure investment can promote urbanization through facilitating economic agglomeration toward hub cities. This agglomeration process also raises productivity in the economy. The lessons from the PRC have implications for infrastructure financing. On the one hand, recent reforms have allowed the market to play an increasingly important role in funding infrastructure investment, helping improve the efficiency of infrastructure investment and the productivity of the economy. On the other hand, evidence in the PRC suggests a cross-province spillover effect of road infrastructure, supporting the central government’s role in infrastructure financing. Although the current infrastructure investment system is still distorted by local governments’ incentives and decisions, there is no evidence of over-investment in infrastructure at the aggregate level. Nevertheless, there is strong evidence that the marginal return to infrastructure investment in the PRC has been rapidly declining. Hence, it is urgent for policy makers to reform the existing system to base their investment decisions on the economic returns to infrastructure. The interregional flow of goods and production factors (labor and capital) is a fundamental force that drives urbanization, but the market may not be efficient in financing and infrastructure construction. This paper analyzes infrastructure-related institutions and the interrelation between infrastructure and urbanization. It addresses the following issues: What is the relationship between infrastructure, growth, and urbanization? How efficient have investment and financing been for infrastructure construction? How can we evaluate the performance of infrastructure development? How and to what extent should the government be involved in infrastructure construction?
R42|The impact of urban public transportation evidence from the Paris region|We use the natural experiment provided by the opening and progressive extension of the Regional Express Rail (RER) between 1970 and 2000 in the Paris metropolitan region, and in particular the departure from the original plans due to budget constraints and technical considerations, to identify the causal impact of urban rail transport on firm location, employment and population growth. We apply a difference-in-differences method to a particular subsample, selected to minimize the endogeneity that is routinely found in the evaluation of the effects of transport infrastructure. We find that the RER opening caused a 8.8% rise in employment in the municipalities connected to the network between 1975 and 1990. While we find no effect on overall population growth, our results suggest that the arrival of the RER may have increased competition for land, since high-skilled households were more likely to locate in the vicinity of a RER station.
R42|Private road supply in networks with heterogeneous users|We study different mixes of private and public supply of roads in a network with bottleneck congestion and heterogeneous users. There are two parallel links for one origin and destination pair and two groups of travellers, where the group with the higher value of time also has higher schedule delay values. Previous scholars argued that as users become more heterogeneous, they benefit more from product differentiation, making private supply of roads more efficient. However, we find that local monopoly power might also increase if there is a ‘separating equilibrium’, which is an equilibrium where at least one group only uses one private road due to the different combinations of toll and congestion of the two roads. The private road can thus increase its toll without worrying about the competition from the other road for this group: it has a local monopoly over them. This lowers the efficiency of private supply. The problem is especially severe with flat tolls, which are constant over the peak. With fine tolls – which vary continuously over the day – there tends to be a pooling equilibrium – where both types use both roads – and competition remains intense. Flat tolling is also worse for users than fine tolling, as it has higher generalized prices.
R42|Private road networks with uncertain demand|We study the efficiency of private supply of roads under demand uncertainty and evaluate various regulatory policies. Due to demand uncertainty, capacity is decided before demand is known but tolls can be adjusted after demand is known. Policy implications can differ from those under deterministic demand. For instance, for serial links, the toll in the second-best zero-profit case is no longer equal to the marginal external congestion cost. In the first-best scenario, the capacity under uncertain demand is higher than that under deterministic demand of the same expected value, though self-financing still holds in expected terms. Regulation by perfect competitive auction cannot replicate the second-best zero-profit result and thus leads to a lower welfare, whereas without uncertainty, various forms of competitive auctions can attain this second-best optimum. For more complex networks, when private firms add capacity in turn, contrary to the case without demand uncertainty, some forms of auction perform better than others with demand uncertainty.
R42|Travel mode and tour complexity: The roles of fuel price and built environment|Despite steady increases in fuel economy, CO2 emissions from road transportation in Germany are on the rise, increasing by nearly 4% since 2009. This study analyzes the impact of different policy levers for bucking this trend, focusing specifically on the role of fuel prices and features of the built environment. We estimate two multinomial logit models, one addressing work-related tours and the other non-work related tours. Both models consider two interrelated dimensions of travel on the extensive margin: mode choice and tour complexity. We use the model estimates to predict outcome probabilities for different levels of our policy variables. Our results suggest significant effects of the built environment – measured by bike path density, urbanization, and proximity to public transit – in discouraging car use and increasing tour complexity. Fuel prices, by contrast, appear to have little bearing on these choices.
R42|Resident Bid Preference, Affiliation, and Procurement Competition: Evidence from New Mexico|In public procurement auctions, governments typically offer preferences to qualified businesses in the form of bid discounts. Previous studies that examine how these bid preferences affect auction outcomes fail to address affiliation -- a particular type of correlation among costs that can be generated in a public procurement setting. This paper addresses that issue by studying the joint effect of bid preferences and affiliation in project-completion costs on procurement auctions using novel data from the New Mexico Department of Transportation's Resident Preference Program. Bidders, heterogeneous in residency status, compete in an auction with endogenous entry and affiliated project-completion costs for the opportunity to complete a construction project. Here affiliation is modeled using copulas, and an empirical model is developed to disentangle a bidder's participation and bidding decisions. I find that accounting for affiliation in project-completion costs considerably changes the evaluation of how offering preferences to resident bidders affects the cost of procurement and the number of resident bidders who ultimately win these preference auctions. The estimates indicate that the New Mexico Department of Transportation can increase the current level of preference to increase the number of winning resident bidders without a major change in the cost of procurement.
R42|The Role Weight of Key Factors Determining the (Infrastructure and Traffic) Intensity of Aviation for the Countries of the World|The interdependence between air transport and the economic sector can be examined from two directions. Several theoretical and regional studies were published on the economic impact of aviation, which is the fastest growing but the most environmentally harmful among all of the transport subsections. However, out of the many factors that influence the development level / performance of aviation, only the thematization and examination of the relationship with the GDP per capita was carried out for a narrower group of countries. Compared to the past, the author methodologically exceeded previous studies in many respects, since the correlation calculations were carried out on168 countries on 8 hypothetical acting factors and other specific indicators instead of one factor. Furthermore (breaking with the earlier practice), the indicator of passenger traffic per inhabitant was produced not from the data of official statistics (such as ICAO and IATA), which is only related to airlines registered in the given country, but from the complete national airport traffic data that was painstakingly generated by the author. In addition to the global scale, the evaluation of correlation coefficients from a geographical point of view was done according to quantitative categories of hypothetical acting factors and at the same time for every country in the dataset. To illustrate the vast differences among the aviation (infrastructure / traffic) specific indicators, linear scale charts and graphs were made, while the correlation of indicators aggregated by continents was visualized with a logarithmic scaling.
R42|Emergence of a urban traffic macroscopic fundamental diagram|This paper examines mild conditions under which a macroscopic fundamental diagram (MFD) emerges, relating space-averaged speed to occupancy in some area. These conditions are validated against empirical data. We allow local speed-occupancy relationships and , in particular, require no equilibrating process to be in operation. This means that merely observing the stable relationship between the space-averages of speed, flow and occupancy are not sufficient to infer a robust relationship and the emerging MFD cannot be guaranteed to be stable if traffic interventions are implemented.
R42|Project Management in the Port Development Project in Latvia|Paper analyse case study of performance and compliance audit in the port development project in Latvia. Author has participated in the audit process evaluating project management application practical approach in the project implemented by the Riga Freeport Authority and co-funded by the Cohesion Fund “Development of Infrastructure on Krievu Island for the Transfer of Port Activities from the City Centre”. Despite the mass media reports that the Riga Freeport Authority has successfully completed the project, only the construction phase of the project has been completed. During the following two years the stevedore activity must be transferred to the newly built port infrastructure on Krievu Island and coal handling operations must be commenced. In order to implement these activities the stevedores have to build internal infrastructure objects, to install equipment and to restructure logistics. Furthermore, in order to obtain positive opinions from the responsible institutions on the completion of the project and attainment of the defined objectives, by March 2019 it must be proved that the project objective has been reached and the benefits must be presented. The project was initiated in 2006 when the Riga Freeport Authority made a decision on using degraded Krievu Island territories for port activities and commenced the planning estimating that the construction phase of the project would be completed by the end of 2012. In accordance with the initial plans, active cargo handling should be currently taking place in the new port territories on Krievu Island. However, the implementation of the project has delayed by almost three years (detailed project implementation timeline see as annex 1), as we see it – due to ineffective solutions to project management issues and untimely, poor communication with the parties involved in the project, such as stevedores, builders, credit institutions etc.
R42|Reforming and Restructuring Ukrzaliznytsia: A Crucial Task for Ukrainian Reformers|If the Ukrainian economy is to be successfully restructured going forward, a restructured railway system will have to be part of the picture. Ukraine’s economy depends on the production and sale of a number of bulk commodities, including coal, iron ore, steel, and agricultural products, that require shipment by rail in order to reach both domestic and export markets economically. In this paper we first discuss in more detail the crucial role that UZ plays in the Ukrainian economy. We follow with a survey of the world experience with railways restructuring: a large number of countries have already undertaken the task of converting aging government-owned monopoly railways into more dynamic and competitive transport enterprises, and their experience in very diverse settings may have important lessons to offer. We then examine the current state of rail reform plans in Ukraine. We conclude with discussions of an alternative path forward that seems most likely to be successful in Ukraine, based on both the experience elsewhere and the country’s current situation.
R42|Subcontracting Requirements and the Cost of Government Procurement|Government procurement auctions can be subject to policies that specify, as a percentage of the total project, a subcontracting requirement for the utilization of historically disadvantaged firms. This paper studies how these subcontracting policies affect auction outcomes using administrative data from New Mexico’s Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program. Through the use of a procurement auction model with endogenous subcontracting, I show that subcontracting requirements need not correspond to higher procurement costs – even when disadvantaged firms are more costly. I find small differences in procurement costs as a result of New Mexico’s current policy.
R42|Climate change and transport|The transport sector is currently the second largest emitter of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, which is the main anthropogenic greenhouse gas (IPCC, 2013). On the global perspective, transport emissions are increasing fast and they might soon catch up with those from the electricity and heat provision sector (IEA, 2015). In 2010 transport generated about 7.0 gigatonnes of direct greenhouse gas emissions. Mainly driven by fast development of emerging economies, transport might double its emissions by 2050 (IEA, 2015). Decarbonising transport is seen as more challenging compared to other sectors (cf. Creutzig et al., 2015). The fifth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) indicates that the increase in global average surface temperature is very likely due to the observed raise in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and the target to keep global warming below 2L requires severe efforts by the society (IPCC, 2015). In contradiction, transport has not been in the focus of the political agenda (Creutzig et al., 2015) – mainly because policy makers believe that the economy is strongly dependent on cheap mobility and they fear to annoy their voters. The scientific community should strengthen their proclamation that current societies are still focusing on inefficient and oil dependent mobility technologies. Non-motorised modes, public transport, and electric vehicles might provide competitive and efficient abatement options with further social benefits in the future (Creutzig, 2015; Jochem et al., 2015). Otherwise, the ongoing increase in greenhouse gas emissions from transport will highly probably continue for the next decades, due to the rising global vehicle fleet and increasing volumes in freight transport and aviation.
R42|External costs of electric vehicles|Electric vehicles (EV) are often considered a promising technology to decrease external costs of road transport. Therefore, main external cost components are estimated for EV and internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEV). These include costs of accidents, air pollu-tion, climate change, noise, and congestion. All components are estimated over the product lifetime and, where appropriate, differentiated according to fuel type, vehicle size as well as emission location and time. The advantage of this differentiation is, however, compen-sated by high uncertainties of most cost estimates. Overall, the external costs of EV and ICEV do not differ significantly. Only for climate change, local air pollutants in congested inner-cities, and noise some advantageous effects can be observed for EV. The advantages depend strongly on the national electricity power plant portfolio and potentially also on the charging strategy. Controlled charging might allow for higher emission reductions than uncontrolled charging of EV.
R42|Clustered into control: Causal impacts of water infrastructure failure|The causal economic impacts of water infrastructure disruptions in OECD countries are largely unknown. Using details of water main break events in Washington, DC, and hourly traffic speeds for 2,182 road segments in a quasi-experimental difference-in-difference design, we estimate the causal effect of main failure on congestion. We use k-means clustering to match treated road segments to control segments. Although precisely estimated, the magnitude of our treatment effects is economically small even when accounting for temporal traffic heterogeneity. Our results suggest that traffic concerns alone are not a justification for policy makers to alter repair strategy for distributed water infrastructure.
R42|Un análisis regional de la eficiencia técnica de las empresas de transporte urbano colectivo en España|En el presente trabajo se investiga la eficiencia técnica de las empresas de transporte urbano colectivo en España durante el periodo 2010-2013. El estudio se realiza sobre 53 empresas que prestan su servicio en las principales ciudades españolas, clasificándolas por Comunidades Autónomas y utilizando una metodología no paramétrica (DEA). Se aplica un modelo orientado a inputs con rendimientos variables a escala. Con los resultados se ha fijado la posición de cada Comunidad Autónoma, evidenciándose que pocas empresas se sitúan en la frontera de eficiencia, así como las holguras existentes en los gastos de personal, aprovisionamientos, amortizaciones y otros gastos de explotación. In this paper the technical efficiency of urban public transport companies in Spain during the period 2010-2013 is being investigated. The study was performed on 53 companies operating in the main Spanish cities. These companies are classified by autonomous regions and their data are processed using a nonparametric methodology (DEA). An input-oriented model with variable returns to scale is applied. With the results the position of each region has been established, showing that few companies are at the efficiency frontier and existing gaps in staff costs, supplies, depreciation and other operating expenses.
R42|Empirical Research on Urban Public Transportation in the Context of Population Growth and the Demographic Development|Urban mobility is one of the most important challenges cities face nowadays. Half of the world population is living in urban areas, and more of them is becoming city-based, going for jobs and studies in metropolitan areas. The present paper aims to analyze different transport systems in order to obtain a series of conclusions on issues related to public transport worldwide in the context of increasing the population in urban areas. Therefore, the article will illustrate some of the major solutions and strategies used by public authorities all over the world.
R42|Polycentricity functional analysis of the Romanian counties|The development of polycentricity at the national level involves the balanced development of network of settlements and the achievement of a harmonious relationship between settlement and territory based on principles of sustainable development, internal balance, the opening towards the exterior, and the exploitation of the exiting potential, functional complementarity and the growth of local autonomy. For this reason, the assessment of polycentricity at the county level is extremely important. The methodology in assessing the degree of polycentricity at NUTS 3 level consists in identifying certain domains significant for the characterization of polycentricity and some relevant indicators within such domains and then, after transformation indicators’ values into scores, it consists in calculating some composite indicators corresponding to the domains and polycentricity. The analysis of these findings leads to some interesting conclusions, necessary for the formulation of some local, regional and national development policies.
R42|Liberals, Socialists, and pork-barrel politics in Greece|This paper analyses the role of pork-barrel politics in the allocation of public investment expenditures in Greece. It proposes a model which explicitly relates the allocation of public investment to electoral results using a unique dataset covering the period from the restoration of democracy in 1974 until 2009, just before the Great Recession that radically transformed the political panorama of the country. The analysis includes 10 legislative periods marked by governments of the two parties that dominated the political arena in Greece: the Liberal and the Socialist Party. The results show that Socialist and re-elected governments applied more expansionary fiscal policies relative to Liberals. The two main parties also used different tactics when it came to pork-barrelling: while the Socialists when in government rewarded/groomed their electoral fiefs, the Liberals invested in areas controlled by the opposition to win over new votes or seats.
R42|Impact of Privatization of Ports on Relative Efficiency of Major Ports of India|In this article, an attempt has been made to identify the effect of liberalization on the efficiencies of container terminals of major ports of India. In India, the liberalization process started since 1991. As a result, many of the major ports, administered by the union government of India privatized their container terminals. In this study, the efficiency of privately managed terminals, under major ports, has been compared with public container terminals using data envelopment analysis (DEA). In this article, output-oriented DEA using DEAP (Data Envelopment Analysis (Computer) Programme) software has been carried out where the inverse of turnaround time per thousand twenty equivalent units (TEUs) has been taken as the output. The results of the study show that though the efficiency of containers terminals are affected by privatization to a great extent, they depend on other factors too.
R42|Are the Indian National Highway PPPs More Efficient than Non-PPPs? An Empirical Analysis through Data Envelopment Analysis|Presently, the entire world is moving to adopt Public Private Partnership 1 (PPP) mode as an alternative to the traditional mode 2 of â€˜item rate of contractâ€™ to provide both economic and social infrastructure. This move is due to the professed advantages of PPPs, such as improved efficiency in service delivery, hassle-free operation and maintenance, on-time completion, synergy between the government and concessionaire in optimum distribution of project risks and creation of value for money 3 to all the stakeholders. To empirically verify the higher efficiency argument of PPPs compared to traditional mode, the present article has attempted to estimate various efficiency scores of the 520 national highway (NH) PPP and Non-PPP projects by employing the widely accepted mathematical tool data envelopment analysis. The present study finds from its empirical estimates that mean technical efficiency (TE) (both full and pure TE) and scale efficiency scores of PPPs are higher than the other projects. The study cites the possible reasons for this could be because of superior technical and managerial skills of the private sector, scale efficiencies of the private sector, payment based on assured quality services and their regular availability, optimum project risk distribution between public and private sectors, long-term nature of bundled contract of construction and operation of the project over the entire concession period, etc.
R42|Effects of Infrastructure Development on Foreign Direct Investment in Kenya|Kenyaâ€™s foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows as a percentage of GDP have been increasing negligibly over the last 4 years, increasing from 0.4 per cent in 2010 to 0.9 per cent in 2013. And yet evidence shows that quality infrastructure lowers the cost of doing business and thus attracts FDI. Kenya has visible signs of infrastructure inadequacy and inefficiencies despite the fact that since the year 2000, there has been increased budgetary allocation to the infrastructure sector. This study, therefore, sought to determine the effects of transport, energy, communication and water and waste infrastructure development on FDI inflows in Kenya. The study used annual time series data sourced from Central Bank of Kenya, World Bank and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). Using multiple regression analysis, it was established that improved transport infrastructure, communication infrastructure, water and waste infrastructure, exchange rate, economic growth and trade openness are important determinants of FDI inflows into Kenya. Hence, for Kenya to attract more FDI, continued infrastructural development is key since quality infrastructure affords investors a conducive investment climate in which to operate.
R42|A New Role for Cost-Benefit Analysis in Canadian Transportation Infrastructure Investment|Encouraging greater reliance on Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) as the organizing framework for facilitating discursive democratic procedures is an area in which the Canadian federal government can reinvigorate its role in the development of transportation infrastructure and physical infrastructure in general.The authors examine the microeconomic foundations of traditional CBA models. They find them too narrow to support the promise of CBA as a materially useful tool to help arrive at evidentiary consensus on major transportation infrastructure projects. To achieve its full promise, CBA requires an integration of advances in welfare economics, probability, discourse theory, and capability analysis.A framework for a reformulated CBA is presented along with an application of the approach in the case of gaining community evidentiary consensus on expansion of the Vancouver International Airport in the early 1990s. Potential implications for the federal government infrastructure policies today are explored and recommendations are made.
R42|Road Transport, Economic Growth and Carbon Dioxide Emissions in the BRIICS: Conditions For a Low Carbon Economic Development|In this article, we investigate the relationship between economic growth and CO2 emissions per capita due to road transport in order to test the validity of the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) hypothesis. We test an EKC model on a sample of six emerging countries (Brazil, Russia, India, Indonesia, China and South Africa so-called BRIICS) using yearly data from 2000 to 2010. Empirical results reveal an inverted U-shaped EKC curve relating CO2 emissions per capita due to road transport to the level of economic development (level of GDP percapita). In all models tested, the turning point exceeds the current GDP per capita of the richest country of the group, which means that it would happen virtually in a far future or after a strong growth episode. Results show that the turning point of this EKC for road transport depends on population density and the integration of government effectiveness into the BRIICS’s economic development policy. However, when Russia is omitted from the group, the EKC hypothesis does not hold anymore and CO2 emissions per capita are uniformly increasing with per capita GDP. The main policy implication from our results is that policy makers should not base their policy on the EKC hypothesis: increasing the per capita GDP level alone cannot reduce CO2 emissions per capita from road transport and without a significant change in policy, economic growth will exacerbate CO2 emissions.
R42|Economic impacts of road investments under different financing alternatives|This study explores the issue of road infrastructure funding, analyzing the impact of financing a road improvement project through tolls tariff charged from the final users vis-a-vis the financing through an increase in the country’s payroll tax rate. Using a transport model integrated to an interregional computable general equilibrium model this research simulated alternative arrangements for financing investments made at BR-040, Brazilian road granted by the Federal Government and which figured as the case study for this research. The results indicate that the way the investment is financed is relevant to the regionally distributed impacts of the project, being decisive in defining which regions are benefited by the improvement project. Analyzing the country’s aggregated results, the situation that has the greatest impact on the Brazilian's GDP growth is the investment payed by the road users through toll tariff. From a regional perspective, a clear area of influence that benefits from the improvements on the road can be identified and, when the costs for executing such improvements are shared with the whole country through a tax increase, these benefits are accentuated.
R42|Measuring Post-Merger and Acquisition Performance of Corporations in the Maritime Transport Sector|Mergers and Acquisitions are generally considered as tools of corporate growth that create value and propel corporate efficiency. Nevertheless, the empirical evidence are not consistent. This paper considers maritime corporations that participated as acquirers in completed M&As between 1998-2009. As far as the authors are aware, such an analysis has never been undertaken for the maritime industry although such an analysis will greatly assist maritime financial decision makers in formulating their decisions. The methodology of our analysis is based on utilizing profitability and enterprise value as measures to investigate the profitability performance of the acquirer following the acquisition. In addition we also examine enterprise value shifts in order to investigate how the decision to proceed with the acquisition was perceived by the investors. Our results indicate a decline in the profitability of the acquirer and there were no statistical significant evidence that the enterprise value of the acquirer increased between pre and post-merger period.
R42|Regional analysis of domestic integration in Egypt: an interregional CGE approach|Abstract We develop an interregional computable general equilibrium model to help assess the ex ante impact of transportation infrastructure policies in Egypt. The model is integrated with a GIS network. We illustrate the analytical capabilities of the model by looking at the domestic integration of the country. Improvements of transportation costs among Egyptian governorates and of their links to the broader world economy are considered in stylized simulations. The results provide quantitative and qualitative insights (general equilibrium effects) into trade-offs commonly faced by policy makers when dealing with transportation infrastructure projects in a spatial context. In the case of Egypt, there seems to be an important trade-off between efficiency and regional equity: projects that produce potential higher impacts on national GDP also tend to contribute more to regional concentration.
R42|Illuminating the World Cup effect: Night lights evidence from South Africa|This paper evaluates the economic impact of the $14 billion preparatory infrastructure investments for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. We use satellite data on night light luminosity at municipality and electoral district level as a proxy for economic activity, applying synthetic control methods for estimation. For the average World Cup municipality, we find significantly positive, short‐run effects before the tournament, corresponding to a reduction of unemployment by 1.3 percentage points. At the electoral district level, we reveal distinct effect heterogeneity, where especially investments in transport infrastructure are shown to have long‐lasting, positive effects, particularly in rural areas.
R42|Ready for Take-off? The Economic Effects of Regional Airport Expansion|This paper analyzes whether the expansion of regional airports in Germany caused positive spillover effects on the surrounding economies, exploiting the deregulation of the European aviation market as a quasi-experiment. Such potential spillovers are often used as an argument for the substantial annual subsidies to airports. Previous evaluations often suffer from the problem of reverse causality, since investment decisions are based on the economic conditions of the region. By contrast, the aviation deregulation under the Single European Market-initiative provides an exogenous incentive for investing in the expansion of existing regional airports. A difference-in-differences approach is used to estimate the causal effects of this expansion on regional growth. The results are sobering, though, as there is no evidence for any positive spillover effects.
R42|V - Vías camineras|Resumen de la situación de la red vial en Bolivia, 1990 - 2010
R42|Detecting Bidders Groups in Collusive Auctions|We study entry and bidding in procurement auctions where contracts are awarded to the bid closest to a trimmed average bid. These auctions, common in public procurement, create incentives to coordinate bids to manipulate the bid distribution. We present statistical tests to detect coordinated entry and bidding choices. The tests perform well in a validation dataset where a court case makes coordination observable. We use the tests to detect coordination in a larger dataset where it is suspected, but not known. The results are used to interpret a major market shakeout following a switch to first price auctions. (JEL D44, D47, H57, R42)
R42|Can Electronic Procurement Improve Infrastructure Provision? Evidence from Public Works in India and Indonesia|This paper examines whether electronic procurement (e-procurement), which increases access to information and reduces personal interactions with potentially corrupt officials, improves procurement outcomes. We develop unique datasets from India and Indonesia and use variation in adoption of e-procurement within both countries. We find no evidence of reduced prices but do find that e-procurement leads to quality improvements. In India, where we observe quality directly, e-procurement improves road quality, and in Indonesia, e-procurement reduces delays. Regions with e-procurement are more likely to have winners come from outside the region. On net, the results suggest that e-procurement facilitates entry from higher quality contractors.
R42|The Influence Of The Changing Population On The Bus Transport In The Agglomeration Of Győr| Environmental, social and economic problems are currently ones of the most important questions of sustainable development. Issues related to agglomerations should get more emphasis now than ever before. Near half of the population lives and works in these areas, moreover the global scale urbanization continues to grow altering villages near to towns. The role of transport in the evolution of the environmental conditions of the agglomeration has been increasing. Herby it is getting more important in township development, consequently optimization of transportation becomes a keystone of sustainable agglomeration. In our study, the bus transport of Győr’s agglomeration was investigated. Connections among parameters of the settlements and bus patches were investigated in order to clarify causes of transport preferences of the inhabitants (bus contra motor-car). As a result of our research, it turned out that inhabitants of the rich villages tend to use car instead of busses independently from the time they would spend on the busses. Significant linear correlation is demonstrated between the proportion of the bus users and the distance from Győr independently from the income level of the inhabitants. ------------------------------------------------------------ Napjaink környezeti, társadalmi és gazdasági problémáinak egyik legjelentősebb alapkérdése a fenntartható fejlődés, a jövő generációk életlehetőségeinek és feltételeinek biztosítása. Ezen belül az agglomerációs övezetekhez kapcsolódó problémáknak nagyobb hangsúlyt kell kapnia a korábbi időszakhoz képest, hiszen a lakosság jelentős része él és dogozik ezeken a területeken, sőt globális szinten az urbanizáció továbbra is növekszik a városok melletti településeken. Az agglomerációs övezetek környezetállapot alakulásában egyre nagyobb a közlekedés szerepe, ami a településfejlődés egyre jelentősebb részét képezi, ezáltal a közlekedés optimalizálása a fenntartható agglomeráció egyik kulcskérdése. Jelen tanulmány keretében Győr város agglomerációs övezetében lévő települések buszközlekedését vizsgáltuk. A települések és a buszjáratok adatai alapján kerestünk összefüggéseket arra vonatkozóan, hogy milyen paraméterek lehetnek meghatározók abban, hogy az agglomerációban lakók a bejáráshoz személygépkocsit vagy a buszközlekedést preferálják. Kutatásunk során megállapítottuk, hogy a tehetősebb települések lakosai előnyben részesítik a személygépjármű közlekedést függetlenül az autóbuszon töltött időtől. A vizsgált településekről busszal utazók aránya és a települések Győrtől való távolsága között szoros lineáris kapcsolat van, amit a lakosság jövedelmi szintje sem befolyásol.
R42|The Potential Economic Impacts of the Proposed Development Corridor in Egypt: An Interregional CGE Approach|Egypt has proposed a new development corridor. A main component is a desert-based expansion of the current highway network. This network is founded on a 1200-kilometer north-south route that starts at a proposed new port near El-Alemein and runs parallel to the Nile Valley to the border of Sudan. It also includes 21 east-west branches that connect the main axis to densely populated cities on the Nile. The paper is a first attempt at an economic assessment of the impact of this proposed corridor. It uses an interregional computable general equilibrium (CGE) model developed and reported in a prior paper. Here, that model is integrated with a more detailed geo-coded transportation network model to help quantify the spatial effects of transportation cost change due specifically to changes in accessibility induced by the corridor. The paper focuses on the likely structural economic impacts that such a large investment in transportation could enable through a series of simulations related to the operational phase of the project.
R42|How Productive is Rural Infrastructure? Evidence on Some Agricultural Crops in Colombia|This paper evaluates the role of rural infrastructure on the performance of some agricultural crops in Colombia. The study utilizes geo-referenced cross sectional data of four crops, coffee, rice, beans and plantains, collected for the majority of municipalities. Using genetic matching models, we find that both having access to irrigation and drainage systems and better infrastructure for marketing –rural roads and nearby retail and wholesale centers– significantly increase crop yield as well as planted and harvested areas. Results are robust to a suitable set of matching algorithms. The positive and significant impact on agricultural development provides support to reorient agricultural policy towards the supply of public goods that pushes up productivity.
R42|On Ya Bike? A Review of the Christchurch Cycleway Network Business Case|Transport consulting firm QTP Ltd has estimated that the proposed Christchurch cycleway network provides $8 of economic benefits for every dollar invested; i.e., a benefitcost ratio (BCR) of 8.0. As a result, the Christchurch City Council has labelled the network’s business case as “proven”. However, this “proven” business case has been the subject of precisely zero public scrutiny. We provide that scrutiny and find, in contrast to QTP, that the cycleway network is a doubtful proposition from an economic efficiency perspective, having an estimated BCR in the 0.7-1.6 range, at best.
R42|Market Consequences of ICT Innovations|Die vorliegende Arbeit wurde von Constantin Mang während seiner Tätigkeit am ifo Institut verfasst. Sie wurde 2014 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München als Dissertation angenommen. Die Arbeit besteht aus einer kurzen Einführung und vier eigenständigen Kapiteln, die IKT-Innovationen in unterschiedlichen Märkten beleuchten. Kapitel 1 gibt eine kurze Einführung in das Thema und erläutert einige methodische Aspekte, welche in den übrigen Kapiteln Anwendung finden. In Kapitel 2 wird der Effekt von Breitband Internet auf den Wohnungsmarkt betrachtet, um den Wert eines Breitbandzugangs in Form eines Preisaufschlages auf Wohnungsmieten zu quantifizieren. Methodisch werden hierzu Mikrodaten von Deutschlands größter Online-Plattform für Wohnungsanzeigen verwendet, um ein hedonisches Mietpreismodell zu schätzen. In Kapitel 3 wird der Zusammenhang zwischen Online-Jobsuche und Matching-Qualität mit Hilfe von Daten des Sozio-ökonomischen Panels (SOEP) untersucht. Dazu wird die Matching-Qualität des Arbeitnehmers am neuen Arbeitsplatz mit der des alten Arbeitsplatzes verglichen. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass Arbeitnehmer, die ihre neue Stelle im Internet gefunden haben, besser zu dieser Stelle passen als Arbeitnehmer, die traditionelle Wege der Jobsuche verwendet haben. Kapitel 4 betrachtet die Effektivität des Einsatzes von Computern im Schulunterricht über unterschiedliche Länder hinweg. Mit Hilfe von Daten des internationalen Schülerleistungstests TIMSS, wird der Effekt von Computernutzung im Unterricht auf die Schülerleistung gemessen und ein positiver Effekt für einige der Computeraktivitäten sowie ein negativer Effekt für andere Computeraktivitäten gefunden. In Kapitel 5 wird der Effekt eines technologischen Ausbaus des Mobilfunknetzes auf die Nutzung ortsbezogener Dienste untersucht. Mit Hilfe von Daten der größten deutschen Online-Plattform für Restaurantbewertungen, wird ein positiver Effekt des Ausbaus auf die Anzahl der Restaurantbewertungen sowie den Anteil der Bewertungen, welche von einem Smartphone abgegeben wurden gefunden.
R42|Eine Agenda für Wirtschaftsreformen in Kroatien: ein umfassendes wirtschaftspolitisches Reformpaket im Auftrag der kroatischen Staatsstiftung|Seit der Finanzkrise hat Kroatien negative Wachstumsraten. Der Brain Drain hochqualifizierter Arbeitskräfte nimmt stetig zu. Die Wirtschaft hat schon seit längerer Zeit starke Einbußen ihrer Wettbewerbsfähigkeit erfahren. Kroatien rangiert diesbezüglich am Ende der Skala der EU-Mitglieder. Das Land befindet sich in einem Reformstau, der überwunden werden muss, damit Kroatien wieder auf einen nachhaltigen Wachstumskurs gelangt. Dieser Sammelband beschreibt eine wirtschaftspolitische Reformagenda für Kroatien. Schwerpunkt der Analysen bilden die Reformfelder Auslandsdirektinvestitionen und Exporte, Wechselkurse, Arbeitsmärkte, private Verschuldung, öffentliche Haushalte, Regulierungen für Unternehmen, Sozialsysteme und Alterssicherung, Humankapital, Technologie und Innovation sowie Infrastruktur mit dem Schwerpunkt Energie. Die zu den einzelnen Bereichen verfassten Analysen wurden in mehreren Workshops unter Beteiligung kroatischer Wissenschaftler und Stakeholder diskutiert und abschließend zu einem integrierten schlüssigen Reformkonzept zusammengefasst.
R42|A Pseudo-Panel Approach to Estimating Dynamic Effects of Road Infrastructure Provision on Firm Performance in a Developing Country Context|We construct a pseudo-panel of Colombian firms based on the Colombian Annual Manufacturing Survey to study the effects of transportation infrastructure on firm performance in a developing country. Our findings report an output elasticity with respect to road infrastructure of 0.132 to 0.146 across the specifications, which confirms our initial hypothesis that roads are an important driver for private sector output growth. The fact that our results are larger than those reported in the literature for developed countries could suggest that the role of transportation infrastructure is relatively more important for the economy of developing countries. Furthermore, our findings reveal that there exists a time lag with which firms’ productions react to changes in the road stock. We interpret these findings as firms requiring time to adjust their production processes to road improvements of at least a year. We furthermore identify that the effect of road infrastructure is particularly large for those manufacturing industries that are capital-intensive and produce heavy goods. Further robustness tests reveal that our results are not driven by the possibility of agglomeration economies or the chosen measurement of transportation infrastructure. We additionally provide Monte Carlo simulations to provide support for the validity of pseudo-panels in the context of firm-level data.
R42|Competitividad en el transporte aéreo en Colombia|En este trabajo se analiza la competitividad del sector del transporte aéreo en Colombia. Para ello se estudia la situación actual, la política pública, el marco institucional, las inversiones públicas y privadas en los últimos veinte años, la cadena de los servicios aeronáuticos, las concesiones aeroportuarias y los factores determinantes de la competitividad de los aeropuertos colombianos. La eficiencia de los aeropuertos es central para lograr altos estándares de la operación aérea y de la competitividad del país. Se calcula entonces una frontera de eficiencia técnica para 22 aeropuertos colombianos usando el método del Análisis envolvente de datos (Data Envelopment Analysis, DEA) y se obtiene un ranquin de aeropuertos. Mediante un modelo de regresión truncada se identifican los factores que explican las diferencias en la eficiencia técnica entre los aeropuertos analizados. De otra parte, la competitividad de los aeropuertos del país se examina bajo dos ópticas: por un lado, con la metodología de la ventaja competitiva (Michael Porter, Índice de Competitividad del Foro Económico Mundial), se construye aquí un índice de Competitividad Aeroportuaria; por otro lado, se examina la incidencia de los costos que los aeropuertos en la competitividad del servicio aéreo. Se concluye que el marco regulatorio e institucional del transporte aéreo ha mejorado pero subsisten problemas de coordinación y cargas regulatorias redundantes para las aerolíneas; aunque las inversiones en infraestructura y tecnología (de tierra y aire) han aumentado de manera sustancial y el modelo de concesión ha sido exitoso, hace falta articular la política sectorial con una visión estratégica del transporte aéreo, como ingrediente central de la competitividad; los aeropuertos concesionados tienen un importante espacio de mejora en cuanto a la reducción de los costos de los servicios no regulados y el desarrollo de nuevos servicios aeroportuarios y, por último, los aeropuertos colombianos, con excepción de ElDorado, comparados con los de la región latinoamericana y con Miami, son relativamente más costosos. Se recomiendan varias acciones: formular una estrategia para la competitividad del sector; fortalecer aún más a la AEROCIVIL en cuanto al tamaño y calidad de su planta de personal; resolver el vacío que existe en cuanto a la regulación del sector en términos de la solución de las fallas del mercado y la fijación de tarifas en los segmentos donde no hay competencia; para ello, habría que poner a operar la Comisión de Regulación de la Infraestructura y Transporte; revisar la metodología para fijar las cargas regulatorias y su proporcionalidad; mejorar la disponibilidad de la información sobre la calidad y la capacidad aeroportuaria del país, así como de los costos de los servicios; definir de manera clara las competencias de las entidades que supervisan y regulan el sector; y, por último, avanzar en el diseño de los contratos de concesión, incorporando lecciones aprendidas, de manera que mejore el enforcement de los contratos y se reduzcan los costos de transacción para los agentes de la cadena de la prestación del servicio aéreo.
R42|Caracterización de la movilidad de transporte regional de la RAPE Región Central|El presente documento presenta una propuesta de institucionalidad para la gestión de la infraestructura de transporte en la RRC, adaptando/potenciando el instrumento de Contrato Plan (sección 2); luego discute la metodología de construcción de la Red Básica y la Red de Integración de la RRC (sección 3), la metodología de priorización dentro de cada una de las dos categorías de red (sección 4), y finalmente, muestra los resultados de la priorización (sección 5). Los resultados tienen un carácter preliminar en tanto se hará una revisión con los resultados del estudio sobre ‘territorios funcionales’ y en conjunto al denominado ‘mapa de impactos’.
R42|El transporte modal de carga fluvial: Un estudio de la reactivación del río Magdalena|Este trabajo examina la demanda modal de transporte de carga en el Río Magdalena, para estudiar los efectos que tendrá el proyecto de rehabilitación de la navegabilidad en él. Utilizando información recogida en una encuesta a 30 empresas importadoras y exportadoras en Bogotá, se construyen modelos elección discreta que estiman las probabilidades de utilizar la vía fluvial, así como las elasticidades ante cambios en tarifas de transporte, tiempos de trayecto, confiabilidad y regularidad. Se encuentra que la tarifa, el tiempo, y la confiabilidad del servicio que ofrezca el transporte por el río afectarían la probabilidad de utilizarlo. El modelo de mejor bondad de ajuste predice probabilidades de utilizar el modo fluvial de entre 10,5% y 24,5%, dependiendo de la eficiencia de las variables mencionadas. Los resultados sugieren la necesidad de adelantar inversiones que permitan que el Rio Magdalena no solo sea competitivo en costos, sino también en tiempos de viaje y puntualidad.
R42|Railroad Infrastructure Investments and Economic Development in the Antebellum United States|We measure the overall impact of railroad investment on economic development in the antebellum period in the United States using a vector autoregressive approach. Our results can be summarized as follows. First, we find bidirectional causality between railroad infrastructure investment and GDP. Second, we estimate a marginal product of $4.2 for railroad investment which corresponds to a 15.5% rate of return when considering a 10-year lifetime for railroad capital. While about two-thirds of this effect stems from the supply side, short run demand side effects also are substantial. Third, given the low effective tax rates practiced in the 1830s and the magnitude of the effects of railroad investment we estimate, it is very likely that these investments were not self-financing and may, therefore, have contributed to the high levels of public indebtedness observed in the period.
R42|The Fehmarn Belt duopoly – Can the ferry compete with a tunnel?|The Fehmarn Belt is a strait between Denmark and Germany, currently served by a ferry operator. We analyse competition between the ferry service and a planned tunnel, the Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link. We develop a differentiated duopoly model to address two questions: 1. Will the tunnel induce the ferry to exit the market once it operates? 2. Will the tunnel’s toll revenue suffice to cover its cost? Using real-world data and traffic forecasts, we show that it should not be taken for granted that the ferry will exit the market, and that if the ferry competes, the tunnel project will make a loss.
R42|Electrification of a City Bus Network: An Optimization Model for Cost-Effective Placing of Charging Infrastructure and Battery Sizing of Fast Charging Electric Bus Systems|The deployment of battery-powered electric bus systems within the public transportation sector plays an important role to increase energy efficiency and to abate emissions. Rising attention is given to bus systems using fast charging technology. This concept requires a comprehensive infrastructure to equip bus routes with charging stations. The combination of charging infrastructure and bus batteries needs a reliable energy supply to maintain a stable bus operation even under demanding conditions. An efficient layout of the charging infrastructure and an appropriate dimensioning of battery capacity are crucial to minimize the total cost of ownership and to enable an energetically feasible bus operation. In this work, the central issue of jointly optimizing the charging infrastructure and battery capacity is described by a capacitated set covering problem. A mixed-integer linear optimization model is developed to determine the minimum number and location of required charging stations for a bus network as well as the adequate battery capacity for each bus line of the network. The bus energy consumption for each route segments is determined based on individual route, bus type, traffic and other information. Different scenarios are examined in order to assess the influence of charging power, climate and changing operating conditions. The findings reveal significant differences in terms of needed infrastructure depending on the scenarios considered. Moreover, the results highlight a trade-off between battery size and charging infrastructure under different operational and infrastructure conditions. The paper addresses upcoming challenges for transport authorities during the electrification process of the bus fleets and sharpens the focus on infrastructural issues related to the fast charging concept.
R42|Car ownership and residential parking subsidies: Evidence from Amsterdam|Many cities around the world have introduced paid parking but implicitly subsidize parking for example by providing residential parking permits for street parking. We study the welfare effects of residential parking subsidies through changes in car ownership for Amsterdam. We employ a boundary-discontinuity design that exploits spatial variation in the length of waiting lists for permits and therefore in the size of the parking subsidy. In the city center, the waiting time for a permit is up to four years. Our results indicate that one additional year of waiting for a parking permit reduces car ownership with 2 percentage points corresponding to a price elasticity of car demand of −0.8. We demonstrate that subsidizing residential parking induces a substantial welfare loss. On average, a parking permit induces an annual deadweight loss of €270. Furthermore, we show that the provision of parking permits is an income-regressive policy: rich households are five times more likely than poor households to receive these (implicit) parking subsidies.
R42|The allocation of transport infrastructure in Swedish municipalities: Welfare maximization, political economy or both?|This paper compares models for explaining the volume of transport investments in Swedish municipalities: 1. by the planned projects’ welfare consequences, 2. in terms of the district demand (the common pool) model, namely a municipality's share of the cost towards the investment and 3. electoral concerns and/or lobbying, as described by a swing voter model. We find that the welfare only hypothesis has little explanatory power. The district demand model explains the investment volume in rail projects, while the swing voter model explains road investment better. Lobbying does not seem to have any impact on the investment volume. Finally, we find that including a measure of the welfare in the political economy models greatly enhances the models’ explanatory power. Our main conclusion is that future analyses of what drives the allocation of resources for transport infrastructure should consider aspects related to both political economy, welfare, and the transport mode.
R42|Transit development, consumer amenities and home values: Evidence from Beijing's subway neighborhoods|While numerous studies have shown that rail transit investment increases property value close to stations, not much has been said on the transit-induced indirect changes in neighborhood amenities and their role in property market's response to transit investment. The rapid expansion of Beijing's subway system over the last decade provides a precious opportunity to research the transit—retail amenities—property value connection. This paper enhances our knowledge by studying how local consumer amenities react to urban rail transit development and subsequently reflect in consumers’ willingness to pay. Using multiyear subway construction history, station neighborhoods’ restaurant activities and rental housing transactions in Beijing, we find a new subway station positively contributes to the number of new openings and the diversity of nearby restaurants. The changes in neighborhood restaurant activities capture 20–40% of the home value appreciation following the construction of a subway station. Our findings support the “multiplier effect” of neighborhood retail amenities in rail transit's impact on local home value. The public investment in transit and the private market responses complement each other and together contribute toward urban quality of life, as revealed by the appreciation in local property values.
R42|COPE-SMARTER – A decision support system for analysing the challenges, opportunities and policy initiatives: A case study of electric commercial vehicles market diffusion in Denmark|Stakeholder's strategies in encouraging wide-scale market penetration depend on their perceptions. This study focuses on perceptions of Danish practitioners in policy-making organizations regarding the perceived challenges, opportunities and policy initiatives for the majority-market adoption of electric commercial vehicles (ECVs) in commercial sector in Denmark. We propose a new four-step expert-based technique, named COPE-SMARTER, for evaluating the market diffusion of environmental friendly technologies by combining SWOT analysis and multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) techniques. We focus on the perceptions regarding: (i) the potential promotional strength of motivators for ECV market penetration, (ii) the severity of the technological, financial, physical and operational challenges, (iii) the efficiency of policy initiatives in encouraging the market diffusion of ECVs, (iv) the expected market penetration rates for ECVs by target year. The results show the strength of the COPE-SMARTER approach in generating a clear, coherent, and tractable evaluation. Severe challenges are financial, operational and technological, with high purchase prices being by far the most severe. The opportunities are financial and environmental, with overall savings in the long-term as the opportunity with the highest promotional strength. Effective policy initiatives are low registration fee for ECVs, state subsidies for the purchase or use of ECVs, and emission-based taxes.
R42|Sustainable urban mobility plans: Bridging climate change and equity targets?|The European Commission (EC) introduced the concept of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans (SUMPs) as a new planning paradigm with a focus on people's needs – Planning for people. This represents a change from traditional planning approaches centred on motorized road traffic/infrastructure provision and a shift towards more sustainable transport options. SUMPs require a long-term and sustainable vision for cities and these are to pay special attention to the participation of citizens and stakeholders and to coordination of policies across sectors (transport, land use, health, energy, and so on). The EC guidelines on developing and implementing SUMPs (EC, 2013) establish the following primary objectives of this “new way of planning urban mobility”: accessibility and quality of life, as well as sustainability, economic viability, social equity, health and environment quality. Since urban areas in Europe account for 23%–25% of CO2 emissions from transport (EC, 2013b; EEA, 2014), SUMPs are expected to contribute to meet long-term climate change policy goals. However, it is less clear how SUMPs can contribute to address key societal challenges such as equity issues in accessibility. According to the EC guidelines SUMPs are still non-existing concepts in most European member states. However, several cities in Europe and beyond have already formulated and adopted SUMPs. This paper is built on a review of former voluntary SUMPs developed in Portugal. A sample of forty case studies is considered in the analysis. It aims: a) to understand how climate change goals and equity issues in accessibility have been addressed through the first generation of SUMPs; b) to reflect on the role of SUMPs as tools to answer climate change goals without putting at risk social equity issues, and c) to outline further research needs in the SUMP approach. The research results are expected to give insights into social equity needs in urban transport and climate change adaptation policies in Europe.
R42|Sustainability versus stakeholder preferences: Searching for synergies in urban and regional mobility measures|Public participation is becoming more and more important in transport planning and decision-making. However, the concept of sustainable mobility can be understood in different ways by the stakeholders and the current practice of participation is often limited. This paper presents a framework which makes it possible to evaluate, compare and understand the ranking of the alternatives for small-scale urban and regional mobility projects, assessed on sustainability and stakeholder preferences. We apply rank correlation to detect synergies in evaluation outcomes, in order to understand if there is concordance between the rankings. We also analyse if the stakeholder preferences, calculated by the multi-actor, multi-criteria analysis (MAMCA) were similar to the sustainability assessment by multi-criteria analysis (MCA). The results of the application of the framework on three demonstration projects indicate that most stakeholders have similar preferences compared to the project alternatives' ranking of sustainability and that any of the interventions would be more sustainable compared to the business as usual.
R42|Evaluating the role of land use and transport policies in reducing the transport energy dependence of a city|In this paper a land use and transport model is presented to calculate an indicator of “Transport Energy Dependence” (TED) in order to support the delivery of sustainable urban and transport plans. The model is based on a mathematical description of the transport system, where transport mode choice follows ideal simple rules based on distance from origin to destination and transit network accessibility. For each transport mode unit energy consumption, capacity and load factor are considered. Flows of trips are optimally assigned between origin and destination zones in such a way that transport energy is minimised. Energy ideally required for home-to-school/university travel is assessed as these journeys contribute a significant number of daily trips within a city. In particular, the model was applied to the urban area of Catania, a medium-sized town in Italy, for different scenarios, including improvements in the transit system and in pedestrian/cycling accessibility. The methodology proved to be suitable to evaluate the potential impact of land use and transport policies in terms of transport energy dependence, separating it from behavioural considerations.
R42|Mega events and the transformation of Rio de Janeiro into a mass-transit city|After bidding three times, Rio de Janeiro was finally selected to host the 2016 Olympic Games. In its third and successful attempt, Rio changed the focus of its transit supply strategy from rail to bus, with BRT corridors featuring as the main innovation. The backbone of the plan included the implementation of an integrated high-capacity bus based transit network fully integrated to other modes including boat, LRT, metro and suburban rail. Once fully implemented, Rio shall have a world-class transit system and expects the share of daily trips made by mass transit to increase from 18% to 63%, benefiting almost 1.5 million passengers per day. We focus our work in describing bus improvements from regulation and control to the implementation of BRS lanes and four BRT corridors. We address benefits in terms of travel time and emissions from optimizing services and renewing the bus fleet. We highlight the gains in user's satisfaction before and after the BRT. We also report measures to improve safety of the bus transit system and important challenges that still lie ahead to overcome problems deriving from the own success of BRT and from overestimating the performance of important BRT components.
R42|Workshop 5 report: Harnessing big data|A group of researchers, consultants, software developers, and transit agencies convened in Santiago, Chile over 3 days as part of the Thredbo workshop titled “Harnessing Big Data”, to present their recent research and discuss the state of practice, state of the art, and future directions of big data in public transportation. This report documents their discussion. The key conclusion of the workshop is that, although much progress has been made in utilizing big data to improve transportation planning and operations, much remains to be done, both in terms of developing further analysis tools and use cases of big data, and of disseminating best practices so that they are adopted across the industry.
R42|A case for negotiated performance-based contracting rather than competitive tendering in government public transport (bus) service procurement|Australian federal and state governments have entered numerous free-trade agreements with other nations. A focus of these agreements and related policies is the requirement for participating governments to procure goods and services via public tender. While such tendering is purportedly to obtain ‘value-for-money’ solutions for governments, in practice, tendering is often aimed at procuring goods and services at the lowest possible price. Against this blanket approach there are circumstances in which alternatives to tendering can and should be utilised. This paper reviews academic research over the past decade, in particular research developed for and presented at Thredbo Series Conferences, which examines how public transport and particularly bus services should be procured in the context of a discussion about service cost and quality. It outlines the successful implementation of negotiated performance-based contracting (NBPC) in Victoria, Australia, in respect of its bus network, and concludes that there is no reason why competitive tendering should be viewed as the most appropriate method of procurement in each and every instance or even the ‘default’ position. Indeed, when there are existing private providers of such services, NPBC appears to be a better alternative to tendering.
R42|A theoretical analysis of business models for urban public transport systems, with comparative reference to a Community Franchise involving Individual Line Ownership|This paper reviews existing business regimes in public transport in the broad areas of economic theory of competition, ownership and regulation. It then contrasts those existing regimes with the specific case of a Community Franchise (CF) business regime with Individual Line Ownership (ILO), as currently exists in the ski lifting industry and as it may potentially be transferred to an urban public transport context. Traditional economic theory is supplemented by considering theories from human psychology, complexity theory and the evolutionary effects from more traditional theoretical understandings of equilibrium economics. This theoretical review highlights the idiosyncrasies of the CF/ILO business regime. Existing regimes are shown to have incentives that do not necessarily benefit consumers of transport services, but are conducive to unintended outcomes shaped by political and commercial forces. The CF/ILO regime, because of its particular structure, is shown to be less prone to these same forces and more responsive to consumer demands with potential benefits for passengers and government transport objectives. As well there is shown to be more incentive in the CF/ILO to manage capital expenditure in a prudent fashion.
R42|Effects of diversification strategies on investment in railway business: The case of private railway companies in Japan|Operating deficits and the increasing subsidies given to public transport are the main topics of discussion for both policymakers and scholars in the transportation sector. As a solution to these issues, the participation of private transport operators and creation of other sources of income than simply providing transportation services have been discussed in recent years. In Japan, private railway companies are the main providers of railway services, especially in urban areas. Although most such private railway companies provide adequate services and operate at a surplus, they receive no subsidies to cover their operating deficits and maintenance costs. Further, the most remarkable feature of private railway companies in Japan is their widely deployed diversification strategy, even into areas barely related to the transportation business, by using physical or tangible assets. This study investigates how the diversification strategies of private railway companies in Japan influence the railway business, focusing on the relationship between diversification and investment in transportation and the use of internal capital by diversified private railway companies. We review the research findings on investment and estimate quantitative models to examine the effect of diversification on transportation investment, based on the internal capital market theory discussed in the corporate finance literature. We find that investment in the railway business is influenced by diversification in terms of capital resource allocation. Internal capital is likely to be utilised for investment in not only the transportation business, but also diversified businesses. We conclude that this result is driven by the expected limitations of growth and profitability, as well as the financial support schemes available to transportation businesses.
R42|Workshop 8 report: The wider economic, social and environmental impacts of public transport investment|Workshop 8 discussed the measurement of the wider economic, social and environmental impacts of public transport investment and the way in which these measurements could be useful in discussing the ownership and control of land based public transport. Evidence was presented on a micro scale for measuring accessibility and social impacts with discussions centring first, on how these measurements could be useful for operators and authorities in the measurement of market potential and market penetration and second, presenting accessibility measurement as maps could provide the evidence base for identifying service adequacy and identifying the income impacts of public transport planning. In the area of social impacts, papers were presented that looked at the way in which public transport operators can enhance social capital of communities and how new transport infrastructure can generate social capital too. Alongside this came evidence for understanding the causal underpinnings of social impacts through looking at the role of income, personality and preferences in the generation of social benefits. Finally, more macro approaches to examining the wider economic, social and environmental impacts of public transport investment were presented. One of these showed the fuller picture that emerges if an Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) is presented alongside the more usual Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) since the EIA shows how the economy will respond in terms of jobs, job access and types of jobs which complements the efficiency and welfare approach of CBA. The second showed how incorporating income distributional considerations within a CBA can clearly identify winners and losers. Over and above the detail provided by the evidence in papers, the workshop identified that governments/authorities need to be more explicit and transparent about their objectives and motivations so that operators are clear about what is needed, that governance issues need further debate and that the analysis of risk needs further research and discussion to ensure that better projects are put in place.
R42|Accessibility and equity: An approach for wider transport project assessment in Chile|There is increasing consent about the importance of incorporating wider impacts to analyse transport projects and plans. Recent research reports the need to assess equity impacts of urban projects to better allocate resources. This has an even larger meaning in Latin America, because of great inequalities present. Additionally, literature about accessibility highlights the readiness of their indicators on assessing equitable access to opportunities Hence, this work explores ways to measure access inequality aimed towards better methodologies for transport project assessment.
R42|Social capital and local public transportation in Japan|Local public transportation except in metropolitan areas in Japan faces operating difficulties due to business deficits. In recent years, central and local governments have taken social benefits into account to support local public transportation, but social benefits calculated in their cost-benefit analyses seem to be insufficient to evaluate them. Especially since the great earthquake in 2011, Japanese people have begun to rethink the importance of network and trust in neighborhoods, which can be called as ‘social capital,’ based on mobility. Therefore, focusing on ‘social capital,’ this paper tries to find the role of local public transportation beyond social benefits. Specifically, it makes an empirical analysis on the relationship between the indexes of ‘social capital’ and local bus services using cross section data. As a result, network and participation indexes standing for ‘social capital’ in each prefecture positively correlate with the level of local bus services. Also, according to our survey research in Toyama, introduction of a new LRT line is likely to have considerably changed the activities of residents along the line and has tended to promote more opportunities to come into contact with others than before. Those studies shed light on the role of public transportation from the standpoint of ‘social capital.’
R42|Recognising the complementary contributions of cost benefit analysis and economic impact analysis to an understanding of the worth of public transport investment: A case study of bus rapid transit in Sydney, Australia|With competing demands for scarce resources, governments need to demonstrate the value for money of new infrastructures. Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) is the traditional welfare approach to demonstrate the value of using public funds. CBA captures the tangible costs and benefits for users, the benefits and costs of externalities and some of the wider economic benefits. However, this welfare approach does not distinguish the distribution of activity impacts in terms of spatial locations, timing, or economic sectors, nor does it capture all impacts on the economy of a region. Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) shows such changes in terms of jobs, compensation and business output. Economic impact changes are very much the language used by politicians in explaining the benefits of an investment and making the points better understood by the electorate. This paper provides the rationale for using an extended analysis EIA as a complement to the welfare based CBA. The approach is illustrated by a case study of a bus rapid transit (BRT) proposal in Sydney. It shows how these approaches are complementary, answers different questions, and can be used together to provide a more holistic evaluation of the value of a public transport infrastructure change.
R42|Explaining “peak car” with economic variables|Many western countries have seen a plateau and subsequent decrease of car travel during the 21st century. What has generated particular interest and debate is the statement that the development cannot be explained by changes in traditional explanatory factors such as GDP and fuel prices. Instead, it has been argued, the observed trends are indications of substantial changes in lifestyles, preferences and attitudes to car travel; what we are experiencing is not just a temporary plateau, but a true “peak car”. However, this study shows that the traditional variables GDP and fuel price are in fact sufficient to explain the observed trends in car traffic in all the countries included in our study: the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Sweden and (to a large extent) Australia and Germany. We argue that the importance of the fuel price increases in the early 2000s has been underappreciated in the studies that shaped the later debate. Results also indicate that GDP elasticities tend to decrease with rising GDP, and that fuel price elasticities tend to increase at high price levels and during periods of rapid price increases.
R42|Achieving political acceptability for new transport infrastructure in congested urban regions|This paper analyzes the efficiency and political acceptability of road pricing and infrastructure policies targeted at relieving urban congestion. It combines a stylized transport model of an urban road network with a model of the political process that incorporates interactions between voters, citizen interest groups and politicians to explore the possibilities to reach political acceptability for efficient transport policies. In a numerical illustration, the paper compares a set of pricing and investment policies in terms of efficiency and acceptability. The illustration shows how conflicting interests can lead to non-efficient policies being chosen.
R42|The cost of equity: Assessing transit accessibility and social disparity using total travel cost|Social equity is increasingly incorporated as a long-term objective into urban transportation plans. Researchers use accessibility measures to assess equity issues, such as determining the amount of jobs reachable by marginalized groups within a defined travel time threshold and compare these measures across socioeconomic categories. However, allocating public transit resources in an equitable manner is not only related to travel time, but also related to the out-of-pocket cost of transit, which can represent a major barrier to accessibility for many disadvantaged groups. Therefore, this research proposes a set of new accessibility measures that incorporates both travel time and transit fares. It then applies those measures to determine whether people residing in socially disadvantaged neighborhoods in Montreal, Canada experience the same levels of transit accessibility as those living in other neighborhoods. Results are presented in terms of regional accessibility and trends by social indicator decile. Travel time accessibility measures estimate a higher number of jobs that can be reached compared to combined travel time and cost measures. However, the degree and impact of these measures varies across the social deciles. Compared to other groups in the region, residents of socially disadvantaged areas have more equitable accessibility to jobs using transit; this is reflected in smaller decreases in accessibility when fare costs are included. Generating new measures of accessibility combining travel time and transit fares provides more accurate measures that can be easily communicated by transportation planners and engineers to policy makers and the public since it translates accessibility measures to a dollar value.
R42|Does uncertainty make cost-benefit analyses pointless?|Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is widely used in public decision making on infrastructure investments. However, the demand forecasts, cost estimates, benefit valuations and effect assessments that are conducted as part of CBAs are all subject to various degrees of uncertainty. The question is to what extent CBAs, given such uncertainties, are still useful as a way to prioritize between infrastructure investments, or put differently, how robust the policy conclusions of CBA are with respect to uncertainties. Using simulations based on real data on national infrastructure plans in Sweden and Norway, we study how investment selection and total realized benefits change when decisions are based on CBA assessments subject to several different types of uncertainty. Our results indicate that realized benefits and investment selection are surprisingly insensitive to all studied types of uncertainty, even for high levels of uncertainty. The two types of uncertainty that affect results the most are uncertainties about investment cost and transport demand. Provided that decisions are based on CBA outcomes, reducing uncertainty is still worthwhile, however, because of the huge sums at stake. Even moderate reductions of uncertainties about unit values, investment costs, future demand and project effects may increase the realized benefits infrastructure investment plans by tens or hundreds of million euros. We conclude that, despite the many types of uncertainties, CBA is able to fairly consistently separate the wheat from the chaff and hence contribute to substantially improved infrastructure decisions.
R42|Accuracy of the Gothenburg congestion charges forecast|This paper explores the accuracy of the transport model forecast of the Gothenburg congestion charges, implemented in 2013. The design of the charging system implies that the path disutility cannot be computed as a sum of link attributes. The route choice model is therefore implemented as a hierarchical algorithm, applying a continuous value of travel time (VTT) distribution. The VTT distribution was estimated from stated choice (SC) data. However, based on experience of impact forecasting with a similar model and of impact outcome of congestion charges in Stockholm, the estimated VTT distribution had to be stretched to the right. We find that the forecast traffic reductions across the cordon and travel time gains were close to those observed in the peak. However, the reduction in traffic across the cordon was underpredicted off-peak. The necessity to make the adjustment indicates that the VTT inferred from SC data does not reveal the travellers’ preferences, or that there are factors determining route choice other than those included in the model: travel distance, travel time and congestion charge.
R42|Miles, speed, and technology: Traffic safety under oligopolistic insurance|We study road safety when insurance companies have market power, and can influence drivers’ behavior via insurance premiums. We obtain first- and second-best premiums for different insurance market structures. The insurance program consists of an insurance premium, and marginal dependencies of that premium on speed and own safety technology choice of drivers. A private monopolist internalizes collision externalities up to the point where compensations to users’ benefit matches the full (intangible) costs; in oligopolistic markets, insurers do not fully internalize collision externalities. Analytical results demonstrate how insurance firms’ incentives to influence traffic safety coincide with or deviate from socially optimal incentives. Our results may be useful for design of pay-as-you-speed and alike insurances as well as policies related to driving safety.
R42|Mutual causality in road network growth and economic development|This paper investigates the relationship between the growth of roads and economic development. We test for mutual causality between the growth of road networks (which are divided functionally into local roads and highways) and changes in county-level population and employment. We employ a panel data set containing observations of road mileage by type for all Minnesota counties over the period 1988 to 2007 to fit a model describing changes in road networks, population and employment. Results indicate that causality runs in both directions between population and local road networks, while no evidence of causality in either direction is found for networks and local employment. We interpret the findings as evidence of a weakening influence of road networks (and transportation more generally) on location, and suggest methods for refining the empirical approach described herein.
R42|A new evaluation and decision making framework investigating the elimination-by-aspects model in the context of transportation projects' investment choices|The Transportation Elimination-by-Aspects (TEBA) framework, a new evaluation and decision making framework (and methodology) for large transportation projects, is proposed to elicit, structure and quantify the preferences of stakeholder groups across project alternatives. The decision rule used for group decision making within TEBA is the individual non-compensatory model of choice elimination by aspects (EBA). TEBA is designed to bring out the decision rule employed by decision makers when ranking the options presented, incorporate various criteria types and ease communication of relevant information related to options and criteria for multiple stakeholder groups. It is a platform for democratizing the decision making process. The TEBA framework was tested using a case study investigating alternative land connections between Beirut and Damascus. Key results showed that (1) stakeholders have employed EBA in making decisions, (2) a defined group of decision makers will rank options differently when provided with modified sets of criteria, (3) the public sector and general public groups ranked Impact on Employment among the top criteria, (4) the most important criterion per group from EBA was as expected; (5) the EBA analysis suggested that only 3–4 criteria are significant in reaching a decision; (6) aggregation of user assigned weights masked relative importance of criteria in some cases; and (7) analysis of user assigned weights and Minimum Threshold (MT) values suggest higher risk perception with increased criterion importance. Policy implications include recommendation to reach out to stakeholders for input on decisions, including the “people” but refrain from relying on criteria weights assigned by “experts” and reduce the “experts”’ role in decision making. Also, it is recommended to model the decision making in a probabilistic framework rather than a deterministic “one score” approach, seek to identify a consensus ranking, place particular attention on determining the values of the criteria that emerged as “top” at the evaluation stage and continue to emphasize risk measures.
R42|The effect of minimum parking requirements on the housing stock|The cost of parking is in many cities subsidized and instead channelled through higher housing prices, wages, taxes, etc. The effects on other markets are principally well known, but the work on the area is limited. In this paper, we study how parking norms affect the size of the housing stock. Our analysis is based on a model of the rental, asset- and construction markets, the results are quality-assured by interviews with market actors. Prices and profits are affected when constructors are forced, through parking norms, to build more parking spaces than the customers demand. Parking norms reduce the housing stock by 1.2% and increase rents by 2.4% (SEK 300) in our example suburb.
R42|Un indicatore di qualità percepita per il trasporto pubblico urbano: analisi delle macro-aree italiane|"Il modello attuale di mobilità urbana risulta in Italia fortemente squilibrato a vantaggio del trasporto individuale. Tale situazione presenta criticità crescenti sia dal punto di vista dei costi privati sia dal punto di vista dei costi esterni in entrambi i casi maggiori con il trasporto individuale che con il trasporto collettivo. In questo sistema basato su una errata percezione dei costi privati e su una forte indifferenza ai costi esterni è necessario che il Trasporto Pubblico Locale (TPL) torni ad essere la base del muoversi in città e che su solide fondamenta di mobilità collettiva si inseriscano poi la mobilità privata e i più recenti esempi di mobilità innovativa (car sharing, taxi collettivi, servizi a chiamata, etc.). Tale percorso di restituzione delle luci della ribalta al TPL non può prescindere da aspetti di qualità di cui il servizio pubblico deve essere dotato. Se l’utilizzo del Trasporto Pubblico Locale non necessita di definizioni né presenta particolari criticità nella misurazione, la qualità del servizio è, invece, una grandezza soggettiva e composita, la cui definizione non è univoca e dalla misurazione complessa. In questo lavoro si prenderanno in considerazione sia gli aspetti oggettivi sia soggettivi del servizio, indagandoli, però, attraverso le percezioni degli utenti (approccio customer based), ritenendo che la valutazione della qualità del servizio attraverso gli occhi dell’utenza sia essenziale per l’implementazione di qualsiasi strategia tesa ad incrementare (o consolidare) l’utilizzo del TPL. Elaborando le informazioni quantitative fornite dai risultati dell’indagine Multiscopo Istat 2013 ""Aspetti della vita quotidiana"", si procederà ad elaborare un indicatore di utilizzo del trasporto pubblico urbano, ottenuto per aggregazione delle informazioni restituite dal livello di soddisfazione degli utenti in merito ai diversi aspetti del servizio. I risultati dell’indagine mettono in luce le ragioni dello scarso successo del TPL in Italia, analizzando da un lato l’erroneità di alcune consolidate credenze circa l’utilizzo ed il non utilizzo dei mezzi pubblici, e dall’altro suggerendo più efficaci spunti di intervento alle società di TPL e alle Amministrazioni Pubbliche di riferimento, grazie alla scomposizione di un astratto ed onnicomprensivo concetto di qualità nelle sue singole costituenti più precisamente delimitate."
R42|Accounting for Central Neighborhood Change, 1980-2010|Neighborhoods within 2 km of most central business districts of U.S. metropolitan areas experienced population declines from 1980 to 2000 but have rebounded markedly since 2000 at greater pace than would be expected from simple mean reversion. Statistical decompositions reveal that 1980-2000 departures of residents without a college degree (of all races) generated most of the declines while the return of college educated whites and the stabilization of neighborhood choices by less educated whites promoted most of the post-2000 rebound. The rise of childless households and the increase in the share of the population with a college degree, conditional on race, also promoted 1980-2010 increases in central area population and educational composition of residents, respectively. Estimation of a neighborhood choice model shows that changes in choices to live in central neighborhoods primarily reflect a shifting balance between rising home prices and valuations of local amenities, though 1980-2000 central area population declines also reflect deteriorating nearby labor market opportunities for low skilled whites. Rising 1980-2000 central neighborhood home prices were about equally offset by rising amenity valuations among college educated whites; declining amenity valuations reinforced rising home prices to incentivize departures of other demographic groups from central neighborhoods during this period. Greater increases in amenity valuations after 2000 encouraged college educated whites to move in and other whites to remain but were not large enough to offset rising housing costs for minorities.
R42|Road Freight Traffic Between Russia And Poland|A suspension of trucking between Russia and Poland and subsequent shutdown of road freight transporta on between Russia and Ukraine have made Russian freight carriers switchover par ally their routes to those via the Bal c States. It is to be noted that Poland and Ukraine which ini ated border closure for carriers were aﬀ ected the most by suspension of trucking. Probably, assessment of nega ve eﬀ ects prompted Russia and Poland to exchange permits to trucking (170,000 licenses to each side ll the end of the year) on 1 April 2016.
R42|Проблемы Автомобильных Грузовых Перевозок Между Россией И Польшей|Прекращение автомобильных грузовых перевозок между Россией и Польшей и последовавшее за ним прекращение перевозок между Россией и Украиной привело к частичной переориентации российских перевозчиков на маршруты через страны Балтии. При этом наибольший негативный эффект от прекращения автомобильных грузовых перевозок наблюдался как раз для Польши и Украины, которые являлись инициаторами закрытия границ для перевозчиков. Возможно, именно оценка негативных эффектов привела к тому, что 1 апреля России и Польше удалось обменяться разрешениями на автомобильные грузоперевозки - 170000 каждой стороне до конца года.
R42|The impact of accessibility on labor earnings|We estimate the impact of job accessibility on wage earnings using micro-level data including all workers in the greater Stockholm region at two points in time 11 years apart. We control for both zone-specific and individual-specific fixed effects by separating workers who have changed zone of residence and those who have stayed. The accessibility is derived from the national transport model, taking into account consumer behavior and preferences for all travel modes and travel time components. A novel instrumental variable based on the temporal changes in job accessibility resulting from transport system improvements over the 11 years is applied. The elasticity of accessibility defined from the worker’s place of residence is estimated at 0.007. The elasticity of wage earnings with respect to job accessibility at the work place is only significant for workers moving work place and for those estimated at 0.036.
R42|Management by good intentions and best wishes: on sustainability, tourism and transport investment planning in Sweden|The Swedish government, despite a possible value conflict with the ambitious Swedish climate mitigation objectives, has stated that tourism development is an important basis for economic growth, not least in rural areas. This paper explores how the Swedish policy making system, and ambitious environmental and traffic safety objectives, influence transport investment planning at the regional level. Our point of reference for evaluating the system is the work with good regulatory policy advocated by the OECD and used by the EU. The main finding is that the Swedish government and parliament lack a strategic “whole-of-government approach” to sustainable transport development. There are many principles and objectives with good intentions established at the national level that are incompatible in practice. The conflicts that follow are handed down to lower government levels to solve with best wishes. The problem with this type of management is the “tragedy of the commons.” Without clear guidance, individuals (and administrations) acting independently and rationally based on self-interests are likely to behave contrary to the best interests of the whole group (society). Making choices based on a more holistic assessment of impacts and benefits and costs could help to prevent this kind of outcome. However, from the data collected it appears that many investments are undertaken without being assessed due to the lack of government instructions on regulatory impact assessment. Other investments are undertaken despite having a negative net benefit. One reason for this is specific instructions given by the government that points to certain investments. Another reason seems to be the Vision Zero policy established by the parliament. In recent years this policy has been a strong driver of improvements of the road system. Seen from an environmental perspective, the unwanted consequence of the priorities made is that state roads become faster and safer and thereby a more attractive alternative to other travel modes. Seen from a regional development and tourism perspective, this may have diverted resources away from investments that would have yielded a greater benefit to the tourism industry in “rural” areas.
R42|Förbättrade metoder för samhällsekonomisk analys av kollektivtrafikinvesteringar|Denna rapport sammanfattar några studier som på olika sätt syftar till att förbättra metodiken för att analysera samhällsekonomiska effekter av kollektivtrafikinvesteringar. Förbättringarna som behandlas är 1) vikten av att ta med bristande kapacitet (trängsel) i kalkylerna; 2) förbättrade beräkningar av driftskostnader; 3) effekter av tillgänglighet på arbetsmarknad och produktivitet (s k ”wider economic benefits”) 4) påverkan på bostadsmarknad (fastighetspriser) av tillgänglighet med bil, buss och tunnelbana.
R42|Forecasting effects of congestion charges|This paper performs an ex-post evaluation of the transport model forecast of the effects of the Gothenburg congestion charges, implemented in 2013. We find that the predicted traffic reductions across the cordon and travel time gains were close to those observed in the peak. However, the reduction in traffic across the cordon was under-predicted in off-peak. The design of the charging system implies that the path disutility cannot be computed as a sum of link attributes. The route choice model is therefore implemented as a hierarchical algorithm, including a continuous value of travel time (VTT) distribution. The VTT distribution was estimated from stated choice (SC) data, but had to be adjusted to be consistent with observed outcome. One reason for the discrepancy may be that VTT inferred from SC data does not reveal travellers’ long-term preferences. Another reason may be that apart from distance, travel time and charge there are other factors that determine drivers’ route choice.
R42|Validation of reference forecasts for passenger transport|We have compared Swedish national forecasts for passenger traffic produced from 1975 to 2009 with the actual outcomes, and we found substantial differences between forecasts of passenger kilometers by mode and actual outcomes. In forecasts produced since the early 1990s, road and air traffic growth rates have generally been overpredicted, aggregate railway growth has been fairly accurate, commercial long-distance railway growth has been overpredicted, and the growth of subsidized intra-regional railway travel has been underpredicted following vast unanticipated supply increases. Focusing on car traffic forecasts, we show that a very large share of forecast errors can be explained by input variables turning out to be different than what was assumed in the forecasts. Even the original forecasts are much closer to actual outcomes than simple trendlines would have been, and once the input assumptions are corrected, the forecasts vastly outperform simple trendlines. The potential problems of using cross-sectional models for forecasting intertemporal changes thus seem to be limited. This tentative conclusion is also supported by the finding that elasticities from the cross-sectional models are consistent with those from a time-series model.
R42|The Gothenburg congestion charges: CBA and equity|This paper performs an ex-post cost- benefit and equity analysis of the Gothenburg congestion charges introduced in 2013. We base the analysis on observed effects transport model that is able to predict the effect of the charges on travel times and traffic volumes with high accuracy. We find that the net social benefit of the charge is positive. However, we also show that the system is regressive. Low income citizens pay a larger share of their income for three reasons. First, all income classes are highly car dependent in Gothenburg, due to the relatively low public transport share. Second, workers in the highest income class have considerably higher access to company cars, and are therefore either exempt from paying the charge, or can deduce the charge from their income tax. Third, high income individuals have higher values of time. Moreover, the revenue is spent mainly on a rail tunnel, which primarily benefits commuters residing far out in the region.
R42|Understanding attitudes towards congestion pricing: a latent variable investigation with data from four cities|Numerous cities around the world are considering the implementation of road pricing to ease urban traffic congestion, following on from the success in cities such as London and Singapore. However, policy makers are also all too aware of the generally negative public opinion towards such measures. This study makes use of data collected in four cities (two in Sweden, one in Finland and one in France) using a very consistent survey probing for citizens’ attitudes towards pricing. We find very strong similarities across the four cities in terms of a number of underlying attitudinal constructs that help explain people’s answers in a hypothetical referendum on congestion pricing. The similarities across cities indicate that the increase in the opinion towards congestion pricing once they are introduced is not primarily an effect of changes in underlying attitudes, changes in how the underlying attitudes influence the support for congestion pricing, or differences in anticipated versus experienced or perceived self-interest. Instead this effect seems to be caused by a status quo acceptance, tending to increase the support for the current situation.
R42|Estimating ‘gamma’ for tail-hedge discount rates when project returns are cointegrated with GDP| Martin Weitzman has suggested a method for calculating social discount rates for long-term investments when project returns are covariant with consumption or other macroeconomic variables, so-called ‘tail-hedge discounting’. This method relies on a parameter called ‘real project gamma’ that measures the proportion of project returns that is covariant with the macroeconomic variable. We compare two approaches for estimation of this gamma when the project returns and the macroeconomic variable are cointegrated. First, we use Weitzman’s own approach, and second a simple data transformation that keeps gamma within the zero to one interval. In a Monte-Carlo study, we show that the method of using a standardized series is better and robust under different data-generating processes. Both approaches are examined in a Monte-Carlo experiment and applied to Swedish time-series data from 1950–2011 for annual time-series data for rail freight (a measure of returns from rail investments) and GDP.
R42|Urban Public Transport Development in Russia: Trends and Reforms|The aim of the article is to present the ways of urban public transport development in Russia within the context of the transition towards the market economy. The article consists of two blocks: the trends of urban public transport development in the Russian Federation and the problems of urban public transport management. The first block presents the survey of urban public transport development trends by transport mode with the attention to the mass transit. The quantitative and qualitative analysis of urban public transport in Russian cities since 1991 is provided. The positive and negative cases of urban public transport development are revealed. The most important features of urban public transport functioning connected to the urban planning and transport planning practice are discussed. The second part presents an overview of the main decisions made by public authorities in the field of urban public transport management. The key questions are: the general logic of administration, the role of private transport operators, funding and risks of the market participants. The general conclusions are made which reveals the place of the Russian Federation within the context of world urban transport development trends
R42|How Do Users Value a Network Expansion? Evidence from the Public Transit System in Singapore|We estimate the network externality of a public transit system by examining the effects of its expansion on the housing market. Our results show that a major expansion of Singapore's Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) system increased the price of apartments within 0.5 km of a pre-expansion station by 1.6% to 2.1% relative to apartments that were further away from a station. Evaluated at the mean housing price, the expansion increased the value of pre-connected apartments by at least S$386 million, which is equivalent to about 8% of the estimated S$5 billion cost of the expansion.
R42|Transport link scanner: simulating geographic transport network expansion through individual investments|Abstract This paper introduces a GIS-based model that simulates the geographic expansion of transport networks by several decision-makers with varying objectives. The model progressively adds extensions to a growing network by choosing the most attractive investments from a limited choice set. Attractiveness is defined as a function of variables in which revenue and broader societal benefits may play a role and can be based on empirically underpinned parameters that may differ according to private or public interests. The choice set is selected from an exhaustive set of links and presumably contains those investment options that best meet private operator’s objectives by balancing the revenues of additional fare against construction costs. The investment options consist of geographically plausible routes with potential detours. These routes are generated using a fine-meshed regularly latticed network and shortest path finding methods. Additionally, two indicators of the geographic accuracy of the simulated networks are introduced. A historical case study is presented to demonstrate the model’s first results. These results show that the modelled networks reproduce relevant results of the historically built network with reasonable accuracy.
R42|Interactions between Regional Public and Private Investment: Evidence from Japanese Prefectures|This paper examines the effects of government investment on private sector capital investment by investigating Japanese prefecture data. Empirical results show that crowding-out effect is observed in some sectors especially in rural areas where the government had invested heavily before the 1990s. This suggests that public investment is not necessarily useful to stimulate the economic activities through private capital formation there.
R42|Safety perception in transport demand modeling for the bike-metro integration in Bogota, Colombia|It is hypothesized that safety perception produces a significant effect on predicting demand for the bike-metro integration. Two models were calibrated in order to test this hypothesis: a mixed logit model and an integrated choice latent variable model, which were estimated simultaneously using simulated maximum likelihood. Data used in the estimation were taken in the locality of Kennedy, which is not only the most populous of Bogotá but also will be the starting point of the first metro line. The empirical evidence supported the hypothesis; in particular, it was found that the mixed model overestimates demand, especially in the scenarios for which provision of exclusive bicycle lanes was not considered. Also, significant differences in safety perception were found for users of motorcycle, taxis and public service, and generally for individuals according to income levels.
R42|Can Tax Increment Financing Support Transportation Infrastructure Investment?|This report reviews alternative sources of revenue to support new infrastructure and other development projects for which municipal funds are not readily available. We review two such instruments: Tax Increment Financing (TIF) and Land Value Capture (LVC). We found more frequent use of TIF than LVC. TIF has largely been used to fund small-scale projects, often not exceeding one or two hundred million dollars in capital costs. We could find only two TIF implementations that aimed to generate over a billion dollars in TIF revenue, and those projects fell short of meeting the revenue targets. The evidence for TIF efficacy is mixed and depends, to some extent, on the type of methods used in the analysis. Some studies found the TIF districts reported higher rates of development and greater real estate price appreciation than comparable non-TIF districts. Other studies reached different conclusions. Three key elements were repeatedly found to contribute to TIF success. (1) Mixed land use developments often met their intended TIF objectives. (2) The timing of TIF implementation mattered; TIFs initiated during recessions met with limited success. (3) Smaller TIFs were more successful in meeting revenue targets than larger ones. We simulate a 30-year TIF implementation along the Sheppard East corridor in Toronto, the route for the Sheppard subway line that started operations in 2002, and offer insights for local and higher tiers of government interested in implementing TIF. Our analysis of the Sheppard East corridor found that the net present value of the simulated TIF revenue covered only a small portion of the capital costs of extending the subway line.
R42|Accessibility and the Evaluation of Investments on the Beijing Subway|This study measures the job and population accessibility via transit for Beijing using the cumulative opportunity metric. It is shown that transit accessibility varies widely across Beijing, but is highly focused on subway stations. Early lines added far more accessibility than more recently planned lines.
R42|A model of two-destination choice in trip chains with GPS data|Studying trip chaining behavior has been a challenging endeavor which requires the support of microscopic travel data. New insights into trip chaining can be gained from real-time GPS travel data. This research introduces a framework that considers two-destination choice in the context of home-based trip chains. We propose and empirically compare three alternatives of building choice sets where we consider various relationships of the two destinations (such as major–minor destinations, selecting one first, and selecting two concurrently). Our choice set formation alternatives use survival models to determine the selection probability of a destination. Our results reveal that trip chaining behavior is shaped by the features of retail clusters, spatial patterns of clusters, transportation networks, and the axis of travel. This research reveals that not only the spatial relationship but also the land use relationship of the destinations in a trip chain affect the decision making process.
R42|Does poor road condition increase crashes?|In a region well known for its severe weather, maintaining pavements to meet high standards remains a challenge. Changes in weather states (such as the freeze-thaw cycle) leads to distresses in the pavement materials. There exist claims that poor pavement quality reduces the ability of roads to drain and reduces the ability of vehicles to resist skidding, and is thus associated with more crashes. In order to improve road safety, several pavement maintenance treatments are carried out, such as “rout and seal cracks” and “hot-mix patching” for improving pavement roughness and distress (Tighe et al., 2000). Others have found that crash rate depends on the pavement type and pavement condition. Crash rate of tined pavement sites is larger than the rate of ground pavement sites. When the pavement condition is wet or icy, crashes are more likely than under dry conditions (Drakopoulos et al., 1998). , When the pavement condition is poor, severe crashes are more likely, but when the pavement condition is very poor, severe crashes are less likely to occur than poor pavement conditions (Li et al., 2013). In accident rate estimation models, the results indicate that most important independent variable is “AADT”, and “geometric design” (lane width and access control) and “pavement condition” (friction, serviceability index, and pavement type) are also important variables (Karlaftis and Golias, 2002). Our research proposes to statistically test such claims of a relationship between incident number and road quality, while controlling for traffic data (AADT and percent truck), segment length, crash conditions (date, road characteristics, and road surface), and pavement type. To investigate the relationship, we combine data from various sources. We then conduct a statistical analysis for ascertaining the effects of good road quality on incident number and severity. This paper describes the data, methods, hypotheses, and results in turn.
R42|The Value of Democracy: Evidence from Road Building in Kenya|Ethnic favoritism is seen as antithetical to development. This paper provides credible quantification of the extent of ethnic favoritism using data on road building in Kenyan districts across the 1963-2011 period. Guided by a model, it then examines whether the transition in and out of democracy under the same president constrains or exacerbates ethnic favoritism. Across the post-independence period, we find strong evidence of ethnic favoritism: districts that share the ethnicity of the president receive twice as much expenditure on roads and have five times the length of paved roads built. This favoritism disappears during periods of democracy. (JEL D72, H54, J15, O15, O17, O22, R42)
R42|Benefits of Transportation Investments: How You Measure Matters|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Hatékonyságot és innovációs készséget befolyásoló szempontok vizsgálata a magyar sertéstenyésztésben| A hazai sertéságazat helyzete az elmúlt években folyamatos romlást mutatott. A depresszív folyamatok megállítása és az ágazat gyarapodása szempontjából kiemelten fontos lenne tudni, hogy milyen fejlődési-hatékonysági potenciál létezik a hazai sertéstenyésztésben. A mutatókzöme kvalitatív vagy nehezen mérhető. Az AKI FADN adatbázisában azonban rendelkezésre áll több nemzetközileg is elismert potenciáltényező, mint például a gazdasági vezető életkora, szakképzettsége, az üzemméret és egyes támogatási formák igénybevétele. Ezek a jellemzők a hazai sertéságazatban is befolyásolják a hatékony termelést, a fejlesztések mértékét, az innovációra való hajlandóságot és képességet. Az életkor és a szakképzettség az egyéni gazdálkodóknál még fontosabb szerepet játszik, mint a társas vállalkozásoknál, az üzemméret pedig a munkaerő-hatékonysággal áll szoros összefüggésben. Az életkor és a szakképzettség a mezőgazdaság többi szereplőjével összevetve is fontos befolyásoló tényezőnek bizonyult. Az ágazat fejlesztése során a stratégiai döntéshozatalkor e három változó kiemelt szerepet kaphat, a gazdálkodói réteg fiatalításával, a képzettség növelésével, az életképes méretű gazdaságok kialakításával, a sertéstenyésztők földhöz juttatásával az ágazat hatékonysága javítható. ----------------------------- There have been continuously worsening trends in the Hungarian pig breeding sector in recent years. With regard to the growth of the sector and halting these depressive processes it should be clearly known what potential for efficiency improvements and development exists in this sector. Most of the indicators are qualitative or at least hard to measure. However there are several factors of potential in the FADN AKI database that are acknowledged worldwide, for example the age of the farmers, the level of their agricultural skills, the farm size and the accessibility to several forms of support. These factors influence the effectiveness of production, the improvements, the willingness and the capability for innovating in the pig breeding sector in Hungary. The age and the skills of the farmers are even more important factors for private farms than for the enterprises, while the size of the farm is strongly connected with labour efficiency. The age and the skills of the farmers are also very important factors in relation to the other kinds of participants in the field of agriculture. These three elements can play an important role in the decision making processes for improving the sector. As farmers become younger, with the improvement of their skills, with the emergence of farms large enough to support farmers and their families, and with providing suitable areas of land to the pig breeders to produce fodder, the efficiency of the sector can be improved.
R42|Airport Improvements and Urban Growth|This paper estimates the effects of airports on economic growth in the local areas they serve, using data from US metropolitan areas. It applies a novel identification technique that uses the overall development of the air transport network to identify changes in airport size that are not influenced by local factors. Airport size is found to have positive effects on local employment with an elasticity of 0.02 and on GDP with an elasticity of 0.035. This means that for every job created at the airport by an exogenous increase in traffic, there are three jobs created outside of the airport. Airport size is also found to have positive effects on local wages and on the number of firms. In addition there is a positive effect on the employment rate, the magnitude of which suggests that around half of jobs created by airport expansion represent a net increase in the employment of existing residents, while half are taken up by workers who migrate to the area.
R42|Public Transport Approaches From A Smart City Perspective|Currently, the major cities of the world, including those from Romania, have to face the problem of population mobility. We can observe traffic congestion, environmental and noise pollution especially in major cities. Increasing the mobility of urban population and reducing pollution are some of the objectives of a smart mobility policy, as part of a smart city policy, according to the model developed at EU level for a smart city. The paper aims to present a model for optimizing population movement within a city, model that contributes to better urban traffic flows, and also to the reduction of transport time and pollution.
R42|Are There Myths on Road Impact and Transport in Sub-Saharan Africa?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""dpr12125-abs-0001""> Large investments in road infrastructure continue to be high on the agenda of many African countries, only a few of which have actually amended their investment strategy. In many cases, there seems to be a preference for a status quo that can easily be explained by political-economy factors driving policies in the sector. After presenting data on the state of roads in sub-Saharan Africa (length, density, condition), this article demonstrates how most countries’ transport strategies are based on certain misperceptions and recommends better prioritisation of investments, better procurement and contract management, better projects implementation and better monitoring to improve the developmental impact of recent road investments."
R42|Firm-Level Evidence for the Language Investment Effect on SME Exporters|" type=""main"" xml:id=""sjpe12072-abs-0001""> Both analysis of international trade and the knowledge resource theory of the firm imply that language skills should play a vital role in exporting. This may be apparent to large multinationals with sites in many different linguistic locations, but we show it is less obvious to smaller companies. With data on the language used by each of a large sample of European small- and medium-sized enterprises in their export markets, we test and estimate the effects of language assets on language performance in export markets and on export sales. Controlling for the possibility that language skills may be acquired by exporting, we find a very substantial export return to linguistic expertise, indicative of unexploited gains from investment in languages. There is also evidence of greater under-investment in language skills in English-speaking Europe."
R42|Tackling Traffic: The Economic Cost of Congestion in Metro Vancouver|No abstract is available for this item.
R42|Trade and the Spatial Distribution of Transport Infrastructure|This paper endogenizes the spatial distribution of infrastructure investment and transportation costs. Transportation costs between two addresses depend on cumulative infrastructure investment. In a continuous space setting with several independent countries or regions, consumers demand domestic and foreign goods, while central planners care only about welfare of their own constituencies. The equilibrium of the game between countries features under-investment and excessive spatial variation. The distribution of infrastructure is skewed towards central regions, rationalizing the non-linear trade-impeding role of distance in empirical gravity models and the so called border puzzle. We find that the endogenous allocation of infrastructure investment magnifies small discrete border frictions and creates `border regions' within countries. Privatizing infrastructure provision does not solve the problem. French data on transportation costs and an empirical gravity model for trade between US states motivate and corroborate our theory.
R42|Aceleración de la urbanización global y movilidad sostenible|Acceleration of the processes of global urbanization, especially in developing countries, produces a multitude of impacts, most of them as a result of transport. Responses to an always unsatisfied demand for urban mobility cities have gone through various stages, evolving from the increase in the supply of human and material resources to attempts to manage the demand. The largest offer of transport meant to multiply endowment of infrastructures, to facilitate the mobility of the particular vehicle, but it failed because, among other effects of congestion, pollution and accidents. The further strengthening of public transport services found its limits in the conception of the urban system and transport planned for the particular vehicle. In addition to fulfill those needs meeting the challenges of decarburization of the cities, which means to address the problems of global warming transforming urban displacement in sustainable mobility. An appropriate solution to the problems of urban transport through profound transformations of existing transport systems, involving the same conception of cities and their functions, individual and social relations, as well as improving the alternatives to private vehicles and the use of fossil energy. The article reviews the importance of urban transport in the global sustainability and the problems posed by the processes of urbanization worldwide to achieve it, outlining some guidelines for sustainable mobility
R42|Macroeconomía de las concesiones de cuarta generación|"""Este estudio se concentra en las consecuencias fiscales y macroeconómicas de las Concesiones 4G, y de las respuestas desde la política fiscal, tanto en la fase de construcción de las obras, es decir, cuando se materializa el gasto en infraestructura, como en los ajustes tributarios requeridos para generar los recursos adicionales para financiar las inversiones estratégicas de los próximos diez años, y lograr al mismo tiempo mejorar la equidad social y aumentar la productividad. El estudio comprende cuatro secciones además de esta introducción: En la Sección I se presentan algunas cifras comparativas entre Colombia y el resto de países, en particular América Latina, con respecto a los indicadores de disponibilidad y calidad de la infraestructura de transporte que resaltan el rezago que presenta Colombia en esta variable crítica para la competitividad y la productividad. La Sección II presenta una revisión de literatura sobre la relación entre Infraestructura y productividad y presenta algunas evidencias para Colombia así como una cuantificación del posible impacto de las Concesiones de 4G. La Sección III estudia el impacto macroeconómico y fiscal de las Concesiones de 4G. En primera instancia, se cuantifica el impacto del choque macroeconómico durante la fase de construcción con base en el Modelo de Equilibrio General Computable de Fedesarrollo. En segundo lugar, desde el punto de vista de su impacto fiscal y su relación con la Regla Fiscal que establece una senda decreciente del déficit estructural del Gobierno Nacional y de la deuda pública. La última sección presenta las conclusiones."""
R42|La percepción de seguridad en la demanda de transporte de la integración bicicletametro en Bogotá, Colombia|Resumen: Se plantea como hipótesis que la percepción de seguridad tiene un efecto significativo en la predicción de la demanda por la integración bicicleta-metro. Para demostrar dicha hipótesis, se calibraron dos modelos: un modelo logit mixto y un modelo integrado de elección y variable latente, cuya estimación se hizo en forma simultánea por máxima verosimilitud simulada. La estimación empleó datos de una muestra tomada en la localidad de Kennedy, que no solo es la más poblada de Bogotá sino que será el punto de partida de la primera línea del metro. La evidencia empírica respaldó la hipótesis planteada, encontrándose que el modelo mixto sobreestima la demanda, especialmente en los escenarios que no consideraron la provisión de carriles exclusivos para bicicleta. Se encontraron, además, diferencias significativas en la percepción de seguridad de la bicicleta para usuarios de motocicletas, taxis y servicio público, y en general para los individuos según el nivel de ingreso.
R42|Estimación del consumo de combustibles en el transporte terrestre en Ecuador|El sector de transporte terrestre es el sector con mayor consumo de combustibles en el Ecuador, por lo que es necesario determinar de manera eficiente cuales son los grupos de automotores con mayor demanda, con el fin de controlar el crecimiento en el consumo de combustibles. El parque automotor del Ecuador ha presentado una gran tasa de crecimiento en los últimos años, por esta razón es de vital importancia implantar metodologías que permitan establecer políticas de levantamiento y recolección de datos para estimar eficientemente los indicadores necesarios para su correcta valoración; varias de las metodologías se proponen en este estudio. Algunos países, y organismos internacionales, ya han realizado estudios de este tipo donde se proponen metodologías que pueden ser utilizadas con este fin, la selección del método varía según la información disponible en cada país. El modelo propuesto en este estudio toma en cuenta tres variables: el parque automotor nacional, el indicador KVR, y la intensidad de consumo de combustible, clasificados por tipo de vehículo y carburante que consumen, el cual puede ser implementado en el país para estimar eficientemente el consumo de combustibles en este sector.
