R49|The impact of cumulative tonnes on track failures: An empirical approach|Cost-benefit analysis is often used in appraisal of rail infrastructure investments. A corresponding decision support is, however, not available for rail infrastructure maintenance and renewal. To for example decide whether to renew or continue to maintain an infrastructure asset, a relationship between cumulative traffic and infrastructure failures is required. This relationship is established in this paper, using an empirical (top-down) approach on Swedish data for years 2003 to 2016. It is shown that the average elasticity for track failures with respect to cumulative tonnes is 0.32, and that the elasticity varies for different levels of traffic and for different infrastructure characteristics. The results in this paper can for example be used to calculate the impact cumulative tonnes have on train delay costs, which together with a relationship between cumulative traffic and infrastructure maintenance costs are essential in an economic optimization of maintenance and renewal activities.
R49|Is the U.S. Labor Market for Truck Drivers Broken? An Empirical Analysis Using Nationally Representative Data|"The US trucking industry trade press often portrays the US labor market for truck drivers as not working, citing persistent driver shortages and high levels of firmâ€ level turnover, and predicting significant resulting constraints on the supply of motor freight services. We investigate the truck driver labor market using three techniques. First, using data from the Occupational Employment Statistics of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, we delineate the structure of the driver workforce. Second, from the same source we find that the trucking labor market has displayed some characteristics of a ""tight"" labor market since 2003: rising nominal wages, stable/growing employment, and lower rates of unemployment than other blue-collar jobs. Third, using data from the Current Population Survey we describe the occupations and industries from which drivers come and to which drivers go, when they change occupations, and statistically analyze these entries and exits. We find relatively high rates of occupational attachment among drivers, and importantly, we also find that truck drivers respond in the expected manner to differences in earnings across occupations. Finally, we point out that the issues discussed by the industry are concentrated in one segment of the overall market, that for drivers in long distance truckload (TL) motor freight, which contains between one sixth and one fourth of all heavy and tractorâ€ trailer truck drivers. These findings suggest a more nuanced view of this labor market. The market as a whole appears to work as well as any other blueâ€ collar labor market, and while the truck driver market tends to be ""tight,"" there do not appear to be any special constraints preventing entry into (or exit from) the occupation. There is thus no reason to think that driver supply should fail to respond to price signals in the standard way, given sufficient time. The persistent issues localized in the TL segment are not visible in the aggregate data, and require a distinct analysis."
R49|Hidden figures behind two-vehicle crashes: An assessment of the risk and external costs of drunk driving in Spain|This paper presents an assessment of the external cost of drunk driving in Spain between 2004-2015. Eventually we arrive at the following conclusions. Firstly, we find the relative risk of drunk drivers causing a crash during the night (20:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.) to be between 2.7 to 3.9 times higher than that of sober drivers. Secondly, we provide evidence that the relative number of drunk drivers versus sober drivers declined during nighttime hours after the implementation of the Penalty Points System for driving licenses in Spain on July 1st 2006. Thirdly, using logistic and count model regressions, we confirm hourly heterogeneity in the pattern of drunk driving, and estimate elasticities of fatal crashes with respect to drunk driving, which range between 0.5 and 0.7. When estimating the decline in fatalities after the Penalty Points System, our approach does a good job in capturing the change in fatalities during nighttime hours that can be accounted for by drunk driving. Finally, our assessment indicates a downturn in the external costs of drunk driving over the last decade in Spain. In addition, we estimate that the fine for drunk driving should be set at 1250€, in order to offset its external costs. Overall, our results point to a decline in drunk driving offences alongside an increase in its punition.
R49|On the discrepancy in the social efficiency measures between parametric and non-parametric production technology identification|In conventional social productive efficiency measurements that consider the production of undesirable outputs such as CO2, a DEA-based non-parametric method of production possibility frontier (PPF) identification coupled with the directional distance-function approach a-la Luenberger (1992) is typically employed. This paper shows that the discrepancy between parametric and non-parametric methods of PPF identification in social inefficiency measures can be non-negligibly large when the number of observations is small or the data are not well-scattered. By using the same data as Ha etÂ al. (2011), who used non-parametric PPF identification to measure the social efficiency of Japan's inter-city transport services with lifecycle CO2 as the undesirable output, this paper demonstrates that adopting parametric PPF identification instead can result in considerably higher inefficiency measures for decision making units (DMUs) with relatively large undesirable outputs.
R49|What drives car use in Europe?|The methodology is based on the results of a recent EU-wide travel survey that maps user preferences and on the application of a Random Forest classification model that explains the interaction of the main variables that affect these choices. The results of the analysis suggest that it is probably too early to assume that car travel demand is close to a peak throughout Europe. It would be more accurate to claim that a plateau has been reached in a few EU Member States with a developed economy, high car ownership rates and slowly changing demographic profiles. Evidence shows that in some of these countries car use has peaked. However, significant growth in car use should be expected in Eastern Europe. The trends concerning the use of passenger cars are certainly not uniform across the EU since each Member State has its own socio-economic conditions and follows a different path as regards car dependency. In addition, some of the indications of changes in trends can be circumstantial or temporary, as for example the impacts that the economic crisis may have on car ownership and use. Others are long term and perhaps not clearly visible yet. The changing structure of the economy, the longer periods of education for the young, the more fragmented and deregulated labour market and the changing cultural values (i.e. the high value of digital connectivity) may be gradually changing the role of the car in the society in the long term, but there is still not sufficient evidence to suggest that they already are having an impact throughout Europe. Part of the impact of the factors analysed here may simply be the result of postponing decisions related to car use. However, even postponement alters the total level of demand, for if one age group now makes fewer trips than it did before, it lowers the overall level of demand. Evidence also shows that the young groups who are now postponing driving a car do not reach the levels of car use in their 30s and 40s that the generation before had. Some who postpone using the car will forever abandon car driving.
R49|Economic Effects of the EU External Aviation Policy|This report investigates the economic effects of EUâ€™s external aviation policy with third countries. In particular, focusing on 27 countries with which the EU has an Air Services Agreement (ASA) of varying degree of liberalization, we assessed changes in fare, flight frequency and capacity utilization. We find that the implementation of the EU external aviation policy results in lower fare levels and higher load factors (capacity utilization). The effect of the policy on frequency, however, is not statistically significant. Our findings suggest that further liberalization can lead to more benefits to consumers.
R49|Potential impacts of liberalisation of the EU-Africa aviation market|Intercontinental air services between Europe and Africa are mainly governed by bilateral agreements negotiated between the individual countries of the EU and the various African governments. This paper provides an overview of the regulatory trends and development of air transport between EU and Africa, focussing on passenger traffic developments over the past five years and discusses the impact of liberalisation between Africa and the EU on the degree of concentration in airport traffic shares. Results indicate a growing role of Dubai and Istanbul and a decreasing role of European hubs as gateways to Africa. While Johannesburg, Cairo, Nairobi and Lagos remain the main international hubs in Africa, regional airport hubs have emerged in Algiers, Dar es Salaam and Casablanca. Liberalisation of EU-African aviation markets is likely to result in the emergence of further African regional hubs.
R49|Incumbents' Asymmetric Responses to Environmentally Friendly Entrants in the Automotive Industry|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
R49|Determinants of Route Presence in the EU Airline Industry|This paper investigates the determinants of airlines’ route presence in the single EU aviation market by estimating two probit models - one for full-service airlines and one for low-cost carriers - which specify the presence (or absence) of an airline’s service on the route as a function of its airport presence measures, the competition it faces from other airlines, and general route characteristics. The results point to the existence of dominant-firm advantages, domestic-firm privileges, and substantial airport-facilities-related barriers to entry in the EU airline industry. They further indicate that served routes are characterized by relative time efficiency of air travel (in comparison to car travel), large endpoint cities’ populations as well as per capita GDPs; and that competitive effects between full-service and low-cost airlines are asymmetric.
R49|Do effects of theoretical training and rewards for energy-efficient behavior persist over time and interact? A natural field experiment on eco-driving in a company fleet|Increasing energy efficiency is a cornerstone of policy initiatives to tackle climate change and increase corporate sustainability. Convincing people to drive more fuel-efficiently (“eco-driving”) is often an integral part of these approaches, especially in the transport sector. But there is a lack of studies on the long-term persistence and potential interaction of the effects of incentives and training on energy conservation behavior in general and eco-driving behavior in particular. We address this gap with a twelve months long natural field experiment in a logistics company to analyze the time-dependent and potentially interacting effects of rewards and theoretical training for eco-driving on fuel consumption in a real-world setting. We find an immediate reduction of fuel consumption following the introduction of a non-monetary reward and an attenuation of this effect over time. Theoretical eco-driving training shows no effect, neither short-term nor long-term, highlighting the often neglected necessity to include practical training elements. Contrary to common assumptions, the interaction of incentives and theoretical training does not show an additional reduction effect. Our results demonstrate the difficulty of changing engrained behavior and habits, and underline the need for a careful selection and combination of interventions. Policy implications for public and private actors are discussed.
R49|Improved energy supply for non-road electric vehicles by occasional charging station location modelling|Electric mobility has significantly changed perspectives in the mobility sector. Major challenges require the efficient design of systems energy consumption and supply, so that developments focus on battery related improvements such as charging infrastructure integration, recharge process optimisation, battery technology and cost reductions. The concept of occasional recharging is to provide additional usable battery energy to the system without additional disturbance of processes, while using existing process sequences and process interruptions in optimised infrastructure allocations.
R49|Self-driving cars will change cities|The effects of autonomous vehicles (AVs) on urban forms are modeled, calibrated, and analyzed. Vehicles are used for commute between peripheral home and central work, and require land for parking. An advantage of AVs is that they can optimize the location of day parking, relieving downtown land for other uses. They also reduce the per-kilometer cost of commute. Increased AV availability increases worker welfare, travel distances, and the city size. Land rents increase in the center but decrease in the periphery. Possible locations of AV daytime parking are analyzed. The effects of AV introduction on traffic and on mass transit coverage are discussed.
R49|Sustainable urban mobility plans: Bridging climate change and equity targets?|The European Commission (EC) introduced the concept of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans (SUMPs) as a new planning paradigm with a focus on people's needs – Planning for people. This represents a change from traditional planning approaches centred on motorized road traffic/infrastructure provision and a shift towards more sustainable transport options. SUMPs require a long-term and sustainable vision for cities and these are to pay special attention to the participation of citizens and stakeholders and to coordination of policies across sectors (transport, land use, health, energy, and so on). The EC guidelines on developing and implementing SUMPs (EC, 2013) establish the following primary objectives of this “new way of planning urban mobility”: accessibility and quality of life, as well as sustainability, economic viability, social equity, health and environment quality. Since urban areas in Europe account for 23%–25% of CO2 emissions from transport (EC, 2013b; EEA, 2014), SUMPs are expected to contribute to meet long-term climate change policy goals. However, it is less clear how SUMPs can contribute to address key societal challenges such as equity issues in accessibility. According to the EC guidelines SUMPs are still non-existing concepts in most European member states. However, several cities in Europe and beyond have already formulated and adopted SUMPs. This paper is built on a review of former voluntary SUMPs developed in Portugal. A sample of forty case studies is considered in the analysis. It aims: a) to understand how climate change goals and equity issues in accessibility have been addressed through the first generation of SUMPs; b) to reflect on the role of SUMPs as tools to answer climate change goals without putting at risk social equity issues, and c) to outline further research needs in the SUMP approach. The research results are expected to give insights into social equity needs in urban transport and climate change adaptation policies in Europe.
R49|The environmental effects of peak hour air traffic congestion: The case of London Heathrow Airport|The commercial air transport sector currently faces the serious and seemingly incompatible challenge of meeting growing consumer demand for flight whilst reducing its environmental impact and meeting increasingly stringent international emissions targets. Growing demand for air travel combined with improvements in environmental performance in other industrial sectors means that commercial aviation has become a key focus for tackling climate change. The aim of this paper is to quantify the impacts of capacity-induced airport congestion using the case of London Heathrow Airport. The paper quantifies the environmental effect of airborne delays to inbound aircraft at the heavily constrained London Heathrow Airport on emissions and local air quality. The findings reveal that the additional CO2 and NOx emissions resulting from airborne delays are significant and will increase if capacity constraints on the ground are not addressed. The results are analysed in the context of Heathrow's climate change targets and current debates surrounding expansion and the challenge of reconciling environmental sustainability with aviation growth.
R49|A historical overview of enhanced bus services in Australian cities: What has been tried, what has worked?|Enhanced bus services that aim to attract potential car users by offering qualities of services more closely aligned with those offered by the private car tend to emphasise frequency, connectivity, speed and travel time reliability. “Full” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) is one end of the spectrum of such services that requires substantial investment in dedicated infrastructure to provide fast services but examples of enhanced services that do not require such infrastructure are more common in Australia and Europe than full BRT. This paper uses historical evidence to provide an overview of the development of these services in Australia and documents the existing evidence for the success of these initiatives taking into account the trade-offs that naturally occur as a result of the inherent constraints of network design with limited financial resources. This paper uses the concept of the passenger supply chain to describe which service attributes were targeted by the implementation of the enhanced service. It adds to the bus service literature by looking at aspects of quality of service rather than how the vehicles traverse the physical infrastructure.
R49|Understanding cyclist traffic behaviour: Contrasting cycle path designs in Santiago de Chile|Cities around the world have experienced an increase in the number of cyclists, which has resulted in a demand for more cyclist infrastructure. In Santiago de Chile, each local government is in charge of providing bicycle infrastructure according to its own technical and financial restrictions. Thus, infrastructure dedicated to bicycles has increased, but its quality and design standards differ across the city. This creates an ideal test-bed for understanding how cyclists' behaviour changes under different cycle path designs.
R49|Dominating factors contributing to the high(er) costs for public bus transports in Sweden|The purpose of this study is to deepen the understanding of what are the underlying reasons for the increasing cost of public transport in general and bus services in particular in a Swedish context. Data were collected through in-depth interviews with managers at the bus operators as well as the authority organizations. This paper contributes by identifying nine categories that can be the dominating factors behind the increasing costs of public bus services in Sweden. The identified categories of cost drivers are; of traffic appearance (peak times), greening of buses, age requirements, the contract period, the accessibility customization, special requirements on buses, collective agreements (working time regulation), tendering and contracting process, and finally, counterproductive political governance. It can be concluded that many of the cost drivers originate from the circumstances of the process of public procurement, such as different demands for different regions in Sweden as well as the trade-off between the bus operators' wishes for higher flexibility in the contracts and the traffic authorities' fear of more risks and thereby higher bids in the end.
R49|A spatial autoregressive panel model to analyze road network spillovers on production|The production function approach is used to introduce the effect of public infrastructure on economic growth focusing on its spillover effects. We improve the existing literature both from a conceptual and methodological perspective. As regressors we incorporate variables related to the new concepts of internal and imported transport infrastructure capital stocks, which are actually used in commercial flows, calculated by network analysis performed in GIS. The internally used capital stock represents own infrastructure that benefits accessing markets within the region itself, while the imported capital stock captures the spillover effect associated to the use of the infrastructure situated in neighboring regions. From a methodological perspective, we introduce spatial interdependence into these models, applying the most recent spatial econometric techniques based on instrumental variables estimation in spatial autoregressive panel models in comparison with Maximum Likelihood estimation methods. We illustrate the methodology with Spanish provincial panel data for the period 1980–2007. Results support the hypothesis that the imported capital has a positive spillover effect on production.
R49|Improving Supply Chain Information Sharing Using Design For Six Sigma / Mejorar El Intercambio De Información De La Cadena De Suministro Mediante El Diseno˜ Para Six Sigma|Accurate and reliable information is needed to support decision-making processes. Due to the large number of participants typically involved in supply chain operations, organizations often find thatitis difficult to effectively share information within a supply chain; hence, this research examined ways to improve information sharing within supply chain operations for one marine transportation services organization. An action research, case study approach used the Design for Six Sigma (DFSS) methodology to design an information technology solution that effectively communicates information between the layers within the supply chain regarding the movement of materials via inland tank barges. The comparative analysis of verification and baseline measurements conducted suggests this project was successful because the new process fulfilled the needs of the work environment for which it was designed. For the organization that participated in this research, the successful adoption of the new approach for information sharing improved communication and decision making within their supply chain. / Este trabajo se fundamenta en la necesidad de contar con información precisa y fiable en los procesos de toma de decisiones. Debido al gran número de personas que suelen participar en las operaciones de la cadenade suministro,las empresas se encuentranconque resultadifícil compartir información de manera efectiva en estas operaciones. En este trabajo se examinaron las maneras de mejorar el intercambio de información en estas operaciones en una empresa de servicios de transporte marítimo. Para ello, se realizó el estudio de un caso en el que se empleó la metodología de Diseño para Six Sigma (DFSS) para obtener una solución que permita la comunicación eficaz de la información entre las distintas etapas de la cadena de suministro con respecto al movimiento de materiales en aguas interiores a través de barcazas cisterna. El análisis comparativo de las medidas que se realizaron sugiere que este proyecto tuvo éxito gracias a que el nuevo proceso se ajusta a las necesidades del entorno de trabajo para el que fue diseñado. La puesta en marcha del nuevo enfoque para el intercambio de información mejoró sustancialmente la comunicación y la toma de decisiones dentro de la cadena de suministro de esta empresa.
R49|Testing block subdivision algorithms on block designs|Abstract Integrated land use–transportation models predict future transportation demand taking into account how households and firms arrange themselves partly as a function of the transportation system. Recent integrated models require parcels as inputs and produce household and employment predictions at the parcel scale. Block subdivision algorithms automatically generate parcel patterns within blocks. Evaluating block subdivision algorithms is done by way of generating parcels and comparing them to those in a parcel database. Three block subdivision algorithms are evaluated on how closely they reproduce parcels of different block types found in a parcel database from Montreal, Canada. While the authors who developed each of the algorithms have evaluated them, they have used their own metrics and block types to evaluate their own algorithms. This makes it difficult to compare their strengths and weaknesses. The contribution of this paper is in resolving this difficulty with the aim of finding a better algorithm suited to subdividing each block type. The proposed hypothesis is that given the different approaches that block subdivision algorithms take, it’s likely that different algorithms are better adapted to subdividing different block types. To test this, a standardized block type classification is used that consists of mutually exclusive and comprehensive categories. A statistical method is used for finding a better algorithm and the probability it will perform well for a given block type. Results suggest the oriented bounding box algorithm performs better for warped non-uniform sites, as well as gridiron and fragmented uniform sites. It also produces more similar parcel areas and widths. The Generalized Parcel Divider 1 algorithm performs better for gridiron non-uniform sites. The Straight Skeleton algorithm performs better for loop and lollipop networks as well as fragmented non-uniform and warped uniform sites. It also produces more similar parcel shapes and patterns.
R49|Measuring productivity and efficiency: a Kalman filter approach|Abstract In the Kalman filter setting, one can model the inefficiency term of the standard stochastic frontier composed error as an unobserved state. In this study a panel data version of the local level model is used for estimating time-varying efficiencies of firms. We apply the Kalman filter to estimate average efficiencies of U.S. airlines and find that the technical efficiency of these carriers did not improve during the period 1999–2009. During this period the industry incurred substantial losses, and the efficiency gains from reorganized networks, code-sharing arrangements, and other best business practices apparently had already been realized.
R49|Inter-Connected Roles of the Ship, Seafarers and Ship Management Company|The activity of shipping plays a strategic key role for the development of international trade. A remarkable increase in the seaborne international trade would not have been possible without the important role of the ship and of the seafarers, both perceived as basic elements for developing an efficient ship management. Ship management in general and in particular the third-party ship management contributes to restructuring shipping business. This paper emphasizes the interconnected role between ship, seafarers and the ship management company for the wealth of the shipping business.
R49|Managerial Ship Procedures in Case of Oil Pollution in Maritime Transport|Sea oil spills produce unfortunate environmental damage with huge impact on sea life, humanhealth and economic prejudices for interconnected communities and industries. As prevention isbetter than to cure, specific managerial procedures in case of oil pollution are prepared,implemented and communicated by shipping companies. Ship oil pollution emergency plan(SOPEP) is a prevention plan carried on board by almost all commercial ships, which technicallysynthesize the managerial procedures in case of oil pollution. This paper present an overview onpollution emergency plans (SOPEP), emphasizing useful guidelines for establishing an efficient SOPEP.
R49|Road accidents and business cycles in Spain|As of 2006 Spanish authorities implemented a Penalty Point System (PPS), consisting in a credit system for licensed drivers conditional upon the fulfillment of traffic rules. The PPS has been blessed as responsible for the decline of road fatalities in Spain. In this paper, we argue that part of the decline was due to the occurrence of two confluent facts that affect traffic density: (1st) the Great recession starting in 2008, and (2nd) an increase in fuel prices during the spring of 2008, implying a rise in the operating costs of motor vehicles. Using cointegration techniques, the GDP growth rate and the fuel price appear to be statistically significant with accidents. Importantly, PPS is found to be significant in reducing accidents with mortal victims. In view of these results, we conclude that road accidents in Spain are very sensible to the business cycle, and that the PPS influenced the quality (fatality) rather than the quantity of accidents in Spain.
R49|Human resources management at Bulgarian sea ports – problems and perspectives for development|The organization and management of human resources in maritime transport have their characteristics as they are an integral part both of the transportation process and the efficient and productive carrying out of the main and secondary services at ports. In this regard the main objective of the current paper is to examine the human resources management at Bulgarian sea ports Varna and Burgas in order their specifics to be revealed, the main problems to be outlined and measures to be proposed. The proposed model for analysis could be successfully applied in studying the human resources management system in the other transport modes or in other countries with transition economies.
R49|Concentración, especialización y liderazgo de los puertos españoles. Análisis de los efectos de la crisis económica|La distribución del tráfico portuario en España ha mostrado tradicionalmente altos niveles de concentración, sobre todo en relación con la carga en contenedores. Sin embargo, los movimientos de contenedores en su conjunto ocultan un carácter diferencial de flujos. Así, existen distintos movimientos de contenedores: entre puertos españoles (cabotaje), entre los puertos internacionales (exportación e importación), o simplemente movimientos que utilizan el puerto como plataforma logística (en tránsito). En este trabajo se analiza la evolución de la concentración de los movimientos de contenedores, medidos en TEUs, para los tres tipos de transporte indicado, durante el periodo comprendido entre 2007 (que se podría considerar como año inmediatamente anterior al comienzo de la crisis económica iniciada en 2008) y 2015, en base a los índices de Herfindahl y Gini, con el fin de hacer una distinción entre las fuentes de concentración de cada tipo de movimientos. Esto permite identificar la posible especialización portuaria. Los resultados confirman el comportamiento diferencial de los tráficos de contenedores, así como la especialización y la jerarquía de las autoridades portuarias. The distribution of port traffic in Spain has traditionally shown high levels of concentration, especially for containerized cargo. However, the container movements as a whole hide a differential nature of containers’ flows: container movements: between Spanish ports (national cargo), between international ports (export and import cargo), or simply movements of containers using the port as a logistics platform (cargo in transit). In this paper, we have analyzed the evolution of concentration in the global container traffic (TEUs). The reference period is 2007 (such as immediately preceding the commencement of the economic crisis in 2008) and 2015. We calculated Herfindahl indices and Gini and on the three kind of movements (the national, the import-export and the transit cargo), in order to make a distinction between the concentration sources, related to the type of movements. So, the possible port specialization is analyzed. The results confirm the differential behavior of different types of traffic, as well as the specialization and headship of the ports authorities.
R49|Shared Value Potential of Transporting Cargo via Hyperloop|This research estimates the shared value created by constructing a hypothetical Hyperloop to transport cargo along 300 km in Northern Germany. Following Porter-Kramer (2011), we identified and evaluated eight factors that create shared value: travel speed, operating costs, safety, noise pollution, air pollution, climate effect/carbon footprint, separation effect/ property efficiency, and maintenance. Using official data compiled by several German institutes and organizations, we conducted comparative analysis to quantify and compare the abovementioned factors for Hyperloop and over-the-road cargo transport in Germany. Then, we monetized the individual and collective benefits of the shared value created by Hyperloop replacing a significant share of cargo transported by truck. Our findings indicate that the hypothetical Hyperloop project in Northern Germany would create €660 to €900 million of shared value annually. Our research method establishes a framework for assessing future transportation projects like Hyperloop, and our findings can be generalized to industrialized nations beyond Germany.
R49|As Evidenced by Theage-old Dynamics of Indicators of Major Rail System<BR>[О Чем Свидетельствует Столетняя Динамика Показателей Крупнейших Железнодорожных Систем]|The article compared results of economic development in terms of market mechanisms and centralized planning, based on an analysis of key indicators of the domestic and North American railroads for the century-long period. It was revealed that the higher and more sustainable dynamics of volume indicators, achieved in certain periods in a centrally planned economy does not show its advantages in comparison with the market economy, which is characterized by cyclical. It is shown that on the basis of centralized planning and control can not be implemented the strategy of “catching up development”. At the same time it found that the degree of success ensuring productive use of various resources in the framework of centralized planning and control is inversely proportional to their importance in the modern economy. This demonstrates the impossibility of the effective implementation of such methods of economic management. In conditions of market relations ensured advancing more efficient use of the main economic resource of our time — human capital. It is showing positive results of economic reforms in the railway transport. Made the conclusion about the necessity of development of market mechanisms and institutional framework (in particular, the removal of restrictions on the involvement of private capital in the development of the existing rail infrastructure) for the successful solution of problems of the Russian railway sector and the entire economy
R49|Ship demolition activity. An evaluation of the effect of currency exchange rates on ship scrap values|The demolition market assists in balancing the supply and demand in the shipping industry and from that perspective is a major driver of market equilibrium and the level of freight rates. Even so, literature related to ship demolition, focuses mainly on the environmental and regulatory aspects of the topic. Literature related to the economic analysis of the industry and the factors affecting demolition activity is rather limited and sporadic. From this perspective the current paper is helpful to further build up insight of the shipbreaking industry. The decision to sell a ship for scrap is driven by a number of factors with the most important being the state of the market cycle. The offered scrap price for the ship will also affect the decision of the shipowner. In this paper we support the view that ship scrap prices are affected by the currency exchange rates at the main demolition countries. We apply regression to evaluate our hypothesis. The regression results indicate a strong relation between ship scrap price and currency exchange rates of the main demolition countries albeit with some differentiations between vessel sizes.
R49|The effects of low cost carrier entry in the Turkish Airline industry|Abstract The paper examines the impact of low-cost carrier Pegasus Airlines’ entry on Turkish Airlines’ yields in domestic and international routes. We find that Turkish Airlines’ yields are lower in both types of routes in response to entry. Moreover, the LCC entry affects domestic routes substantially more than international routes. Due to lower fares and heightened competition, the number of passengers has more than quadrupled in the last decade. Hence, we argue that Pegasus entry has been instrumental in transforming the Turkish Airline industry, which has become more dynamically competitive recently.
R49|Capacité d’innovation du prestataire de services logistiques et performance logistique perçue par l’industriel : quelle relation dans le contexte vietnamien ?|The rapid growth of logistics service providers (LSP) has become a reality in many developed countries, but also in economies in transition. They now offer a wide range of services to their clients, and they demonstrate a significant innovation capability in the creation of new value added services. The question is whether their clients are aware that innovation capability positively influences their logistical performance. If it is the case, it would mean that the most innovative LSP are in a favorable position on the market, and they can expect a strong loyalty of their clients. This article studies the link between the innovation capability of LSP and the logistical performance perceived by the manufacturer, from the results of a research conducted with 139 Vietnamese food manufacturers. JEL Codes : L66, L87, M10, R49
R49|Do entrants increase incumbents' innovation activity? Escaping the lock-in, stimulating technological change and the transition towards environmentally friendly vehicles|In the context of technological transitions, the influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is a major driving force. Using worldwide patent data, the present study analyzes this influence for the case of the transition from combustion engine vehicles towards electrically powered alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Lateral entrants and start-ups play a key role in developing ATV-related patents, whereas automotive incumbents are considered as being less motivated in pursuing this new technology. The empirical results indicate that innovative entrants have an influence on incumbents? innovation activities, and also underline the importance of cross-country entry. The findings further suggest that entrants stimulate ATV-related innovations in those incumbents that show low ATV-related patent productivity whereas incumbents with high ATV-related patent productivity react with a decrease in ATV-related patenting, which is assumed to be a sign of outsourcing research and development activities. JEL Codes: Q550, O3, Q520, R490, L910, L260, O310
R49|Assessing environmental performance trends in the transport industry: Eco-innovation or catching-up?|This paper analyses the change in environmental performance that took place in the transport industry of 38 countries between the years 1995 and 2009. Data Envelopment Analysis techniques and directional distance functions are employed to compute Luenberger productivity indicators for the change in environmental performance and its determinants, namely, environmental technical change resulting from eco-innovation and catching-up with best available environmental technologies. Eight air pollutants account for the environmental contaminants from transport activities, and these are aggregated into three main categories of environmental pressures, namely, global warming, tropospheric ozone formation and acidification potentials. Furthermore, performance evaluation is based on how these specific environmental pressures are managed. Our principal findings show that there has been a noticeable improvement in environmental performance since the 1990s, primarily as a result of eco-innovations; moreover, this improvement has been markedly greater in low- and middle-income economies, bolstered, in this case, by both environmental technical progress and catching-up. These results reveal the need for policy measures aimed at encouraging catching-up with best available technologies, particularly in more developed countries.
R49|Specified purpose acquisition companies in shipping|This paper examines Specified Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) used as a financing tool for the shipping industry in the period 2004–2013. SPACs that focused on acquisitions in the shipping industry have statistically similar characteristics to the population of SPACs that entered U.S. financial markets. Additionally, shipping companies merge into SPACs for the benefits of acquiring a public listing and receiving the SPAC's cash. The paper constructs an original SPAC Shipping Index and compares its performance with benchmark indices. Under some conditions, managers of SPACs with a focus on shipping on average exhibit a return of $154 for every $1 invested.
R49|The potential of alternative fuel vehicles: A cost-benefit analysis|This study investigates the economic validity of the diffusion of fuel cell vehicles (FCVs) and all-electric vehicles (EVs), employing a cost-benefit analysis from the social point of view. This research assumes the amount of NOx and tank-to-wheel CO2 emissions and gasoline use reduction as the benefits and the purchase costs, infrastructure expenses, and maintenance costs of alternative vehicles as the costs of switching internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles to alternative energy vehicles. In addition, this study conducts a sensitivity analysis considering cost reductions in FCV and EV production and increasing costs for CO2 abatement as well as increasing gasoline prices. In summary, the results show that the diffusion of FCVs is not economically beneficial until 2110, even if the FCV purchase cost decreases to that of an ICE vehicle. EV diffusion might be beneficial by 2060 depending on increases in gasoline prices and CO2 abatement costs.
R49|Value of eco-friendly route choice for heavy-duty trucks|Heavy-duty trucks are a critical component of any goods movement system; however, they consume a large amount of fuel and emit significant pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions. An important consideration for reducing fuel consumption and improving trucking operations is efficient vehicle routing. Many existing fleet management and routing systems are based on minimizing distance traveled which does not necessarily minimize fuel consumption or emissions, particularly when under traffic congestion and in areas with hilly terrain.
R49|The Pros and Cons of the Intelligent Transportation System Implementation at Toll Plazas in Russia|The implementation of Intelligent Transportation System elements into the toll plaza system is an actual topic nowadays and its positive effect is the subject of wide speculations. It is considered that the toll plaza Intelligent Transportation System can play a significant role in construction and operating costs reduction and improve the traffic safety. Also, the implementation of the Intelligent Transportation System elements provides the CO2 emissions reduction and increases the level of toll road user satisfaction. However, the usage of these elements at toll plazas has some disadvantages. While the usage of the old-school (manual) toll collection technology provides 100% toll collection rate, the implementation of the Intelligent Transportation System elements at toll roads entails toll payment deficiency. Discussion as whether to use the old technology or to implement the Intelligent Transportation System elements is the right way to operate toll roads and toll plazas forms a point of departure for this paper. This article focuses on the economic, social and environmental effects of the implementation of the Intelligent Transportation System elements at toll roads. Almost all kinds of positive and negative effects of the Intelligent Transportation System elements implementation are evaluated in money terms and made on the basis of author’s calculations and sociological researches data
R49|The future of the transport industry| This publication aims to bridge the gap between the analysis of the trends in the European transport system and the evaluation of their impacts on competitiveness. Specifically, this report presents the future challenges, demand drivers and upcoming innovations which can have a considerable impact on the global demand patterns for the passenger and freight transport and how this might affect the competitiveness of related industries and service providers. Emphasis is given to targeted research strategies. The goal is to investigate the challenges for the European transport sector in the long term, in order to develop the suitable strategic options for European transport research policy.
R49|EU Survey on issues related to transport and mobility| The main purpose of the survey was to collect data on car use, on use of transport modes for long distance mobility as well as on some other policy relevant issues (e.g. the attitude towards internalisation of road external costs by means of road charging). The survey involved all the 28 European countries. In each country a sample of 1000 individuals (500 in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta) was asked to fill in a questionnaire divided into four sections: a. general information on the respondent (e.g. age, gender, living area) as well as details on availability of cars and public transport service. b. information on everyday mobility in terms of mode used, frequency of trips, duration, distance, inter-modality and opinions on main problems experienced. c. information long distance trips (between 300 km and 1000 km as well as over 1000 km) made in the last 12 months; number of trips by purpose and main mode; connections between rail and air transport. d. opinions on aspects related to the European transport policy and especially on the scope for road charging.
R49|Smart guide on regional transport innovation strategy: Transport innovation roadmaps| This guide provides regions with information and guidelines useful for the development of smart specialisation strategies (RIS3) in transport. The guide follows the six steps for Smart Specialization with a special focus in transport. The six steps include the analysis of the regional context and potential for innovation, the discussion of governance structure, the development of a shared vision about the future of the region, approaches for the selection of transport related priorities for regional development, policy mixes and options for the integration of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The recommended process consists of a bottom-up analysis of regional capabilities of the industry and scientific community that needs to be aligned with national and European objectives. At the European level, the Strategic Transport Technological Plan (STTP) identifies ten innovation areas that will be extremely important for the future competitiveness of the transport sector. The guide also analyses different innovation area in the context of RIS3 methodology, showing specific examples and roadmaps on how these could be implemented in the regional innovation strategies. Finally tools are offered to analyse the innovation potential, performance and priorities in the transport sector, such as data and indicators regarding regional transport innovation, as well as methodologies to analyse innovation capabilities of European regions.
R49|Bike Usage in Public Bike-Sharing: An Analysis of the “BikeMi” System in Milan|The constant increase of public shared bicycle systems (PSBSs) in western cities suggests that nowadays city councils consider public bike sharing systems a serious alternative to traditional public transportation in urban areas. PSBSs can represent a solution in the hands of citizens for short journeys in highly urbanized areas. In this paper we focus on the successful example of Milan’s BikeMi PSBS which is giving very positive results in terms of satisfaction for all the actors involved, i.e. the service management, city council and users. From the available data it can be inferred that the bicycle overcome the car central areas in terms of speed, distance travelled daily, and choice of multiple itineraries, especially during peak periods and in proximity of the main railway stations. The main bicycle tracks and hotspots are also detected revealing an imbalance between the northern and the southern part of the city, with the northern part better covered by the service.
R49|Guidelines for Enhancing Competitiveness of Bulgarian Transport Enterprises|The article is devoted to the basic problems related to the functioning of the Bulgarian trans­port companies. In this connection is made an analysis of freight and passenger transport ac­tivities of different types of transport forming the national transport system. A special attention is paid to increasing of railway, road and sea transport competitiveness which are playing an important role in the operation of the national economy. The possibilities for development of combined transport in Bulgaria also are deter­mined as one of the main priorities of the Eu­ropean Transport Policy. In order to achieve the research goal are examined the possibilities to improve the transport infrastructure, the rolling stock use, as well as the environmental friend­liness of different modes of transport. On the basis of the study are indicated the guidelines to enhance the competitiveness of Bulgarian Transport Enterprises and the sustainable de­velopment of transport sector.
R49|Impact Assessment of the Key Quantitative Indices for Road Transport Performance on Its Energy Efficiency|In order to enhance energy efficiency in trans­port, we need quality solutions based on scientific research that can provide a thorough analysis of the trends and perspectives for energy consump­tion by the transport sector in the country, and respectively its competitiveness on the European transport market. The excessive development of road trans­port does not further the correct transport system balancing and it does not enable the achievement of policy objectives for sustainable transport development regarding energy con­sumption and energy efficiency. Bulgarian na­tional legislation plans to impose requirements regarding transport operators and vehicles in many of these aspects; however, it is necessary to evaluate the achieved results and expand road transport development policy through mea­sures aimed at lowering adverse external effects based on an assessment of key quantitative in­dices for its development. The following article presents a study of the correlations between the key quantitative indices for road transport performance and its energy consumption. The aim is to determine the extent to which these indicators influence road transport efficiency and to outline possibili­ties for adopting purposeful policies in regard to the aspects where the strongest influences are specified. The study has been conducted within re­search project ÍÈÄ-ÍÈ ¹1-3/2013 and it gives an opportunity to reveal the main factors of in­fluence as well as to suggest measures for im­proving the energy efficiency of road transport while achieving policy goals for sustainable transport development regarding its energy ef­ficiency. An assessment matrix has been developed and complex energy efficiency indices have been calculated. They serve as a basis for proposing specific measures for enhancing energy efficien­cy of road transport in Bulgaria
R49|Ship Management Benchmarking|Striving for an equilibrium consistency in the domain of ship management services, benchmarking is a useful tool for learning best practices of the best. We present in this paper our considerations regarding ship management benchmarking, taking into account the particularities of the shipping market.
R49|Дмитрий Сироткин – Основоположник Судоходства И Судостроительства В Сербии<BR>[Dmitry Sirotkin – The Founder of Navigation and Shipbuilding in Serbia]|English Abstract. The paper is addressed to one of the most famous man of Nizhny Novgorod at the end of XX and the beginning of XXI century, Dmitry Vasilevich Sirotkin, the last pre-revolutionary mayor of this city. The famous shipmanufacturer at Volga, later emigrant in Belgrade, he linked with his wonderful faith two great rivers, two cities and two nations. At the beginning of 1920s he came in Belgrade, became then the founder of inland navigation and shipbuilding in Serbia (on Danube). At this manner, Sirotkin's personality and activity linked not only two brother's cities – Nizhny Novgorod and Belgrade, bat also two brother's nations – Russians and Serbs, made with this the challenge to the next generations – highlight his not yet enough investigated life and activity. Particularly important is the second part of his life, that he was lived in capital of Serbia and Yugoslavia, that general not enough famous is, because he has not received enough recognitions in his second homeland. Russian Abstract. Статья посвящена одному из самых знаменитых людей Нижнего Новгорода конца 19 и начала 20 века, Дмитрию Васильевичу Сироткину, последнему предреволюционному мэру этого города. Известный судопромышленник на Волге, впоследствии эмигрант в Белграде, своей удивительной судьбой связал две великие реки, два города и два народа. Обосновавшись в начале 1920-х в Белграде, он явился основоположником судоходства и судостроительства в Сербии (на Дунае). Таким образом, личность и деятельность Сироткина связала не только два братских города – Нижний Новгород и Белград, но и два братских народа – русских и сербов, оставив вызов следующим поколениям – осветить его ещё недостаточно исследованную жизнь и деятельность. Особенно при этом важно исследование второй части его жизни, проведенной им в столице Сербии и Югославии, которая в общем-то недостаточно известна, из-за чего он и не получил достаточных признаний в своей второй родине.
R49|Accessibility Models Based On the Gravity Analogy: In Theory and Practice|The most commonly applied types of accessibility models are based on the gravity analogy. In these models, researchers use different types of resistance factors, but they rarely give any elaborate explanation for their choice of a specific type of factor in their research. Another problem with this kind of analysis is that in many cases, the authors do not describe precisely how they determine the constants for a line of calculations in a given model. Thus, the results cannot be fully accepted since they cannot be reproduced by the reader. Finally, we consider it to be yet another huge problem that the results of the models are rarely compared to the real (for example traffic) parameters, therefore, it is also impossible to detect what would happen if the researcher used a different model. In this study, we tried to line up the most commonly used models, and by enlightening the resistance factors, examine their possible usage and their boundaries through exact Hungarian examples.
R49|La conectividad de los puertos españoles del Mediterráneo|Los efectos de la crisis mundial y la emergencia de nuevas rutas marítimas provocan cambios sustanciales en lo que concierne a la polarización de las zonas económicas y logísticas. Se alteran los tradicionales parámetros de atracción y las perspectivas de los puertos quedan determinadas por nuevos criterios de conectividad interna y externa que delimitan una nueva jerarquía portuaria internacional. Esta investigación propone una medición de la influencia de los puertos españoles del Mediterráneo en lo que se refiere a la conectividad externa (foreland). Esta medición será desarrollada destacando las distintas especializaciones y conexiones inter-portuarias.
R49|Concept of sustainable development in metallurgical waste transport|The aim of this paper is to present by way of using a case study the on-going situation relating to the implementation of sustainable development within the area of metallurgical waste transport. A variety of activities have been undertaken within the area of metallurgy aiming at implementing sustainable development, especially through reducing the negative influence of the waste generated therein onto the natural environment. The most crucial changes relate to technological processes employed at the production stage; however, much is also done within the area of transport. The issue presented in the title of the paper will be discussed on the example of X enterprise, which deals in metallurgical waste processing. As far as technology in concerned, the enterprise in question implements innovative and environment friendly waste management methods. The considerations shall commence with addressing the question how the persons managing the company understand the notion of sustainable development and whether and to what extent the company implements this concept within the area of transport. An introductory analysis of the data obtained from the company makes it possible to propose a hypothesis relating to practical aspects of the implementation of the said concept: there continually arise contradictions of economic and environmental nature.
R49|Complementary Alliances with Endogenous Fleets and Load Factors|This paper analyzes the effect of carrier collaboration on fleet capacity, fleet structures in terms of the number and the size of vehicles, and load factors. The model features complementary networks, scheduling, price elastic demands, and demand uncertainty. For the case of a given number of vehicles, the analysis shows that carrier collaboration increases vehicle sizes (thus, fleet capacity) if marginal seat costs are low while fleet capacity remains unchanged if marginal seat costs are high. If both vehicle sizes and vehicle numbers can be varied, then collaboration will always increase vehicle numbers and fleet capacity, while the effects on vehicle sizes and, thus, also load factors, are ambiguous and therewith hard to predict. Numerical simulations indicate that collaboration increases expected load factors also when the number of vehicles is endogenous.
R49|Optimal Transport Provision To A Tourist Destination: A Mechanism Design Approach|How to provide transport infrastructure to a tourist destination optimally is a salient question in tourism economics. Even so, this question has received no theoretical attention in the literature. Hence, we use contract theory to provide the first theoretical analysis of the optimal provision of transport infrastructure by an asymmetrically informed tourist agency (TA) interested in promoting a particular destination to tourists. Specifically, we first delineate our model and then solve for the first-best contract describing the interaction between the TA and a transport infrastructure providing firm. Second, we study the optimal second-best contract with asymmetric information when the above firm can be of two possible types. Finally, we conclude and then discuss extensions of the research described in this paper.
R49|Optimal Transport Provision To A Tourist Destination: A Mechanism Design Approach|How to provide transport infrastructure to a tourist destination optimally is a salient question in tourism economics. Even so, this question has received no theoretical attention in the literature. Hence, we use contract theory to provide the first theoretical analysis of the optimal provision of transport infrastructure by an asymmetrically informed tourist agency (TA) interested in promoting a particular destination to tourists. Specifically, we first delineate our model and then solve for the first-best contract describing the interaction between the TA and a transport infrastructure providing firm. Second, we study the optimal second-best contract with asymmetric information when the above firm can be of two possible types. Finally, we conclude and then discuss extensions of the research described in this paper.
R49|TransNIEMO: Economic Impact Analysis Using a Model of Consistent Interregional Economic and Network Equilibria|We describe a model that integrates a multi-regional input-output model of the U.S. (50 states and the District of Columbia) with the national highway network. Interstate commodity shipments are placed on a congestible highway network. Simulations of major choke-point disruptions redirect traffic which increases the costs of some shipments. Increased costs show up in higher prices which help to determine a new input-output equilibrium. We find economic and network equilibria that are consistent. The simulations show only moderate economic impacts. We ascribe this to the resilience of highway network. The model provides state-level detail on who bears the costs of the disruptions.
R49|Reconsidering the nature and effects of habits in urban transportation behavior|This paper adds to the growing empirical evidence on the importance of habits in governing human behavior, and sheds new light on individual inertia in relation to transportation behavior. An enriched perspective rooted in Veblenian evolutionary economics (VEE) is used to construct a theoretical framework in order to analyze the processes at play in the formation and reinforcement of habits. The empirical study explores more specifically the synchronic processes strengthening the car-using habit. In addition to underlining the shortcomings of a 'decision theory' perspective to address urban transportation behaviors, we find that synchronic habits can have a significant effect on behavioral inertia. Our results suggest the existence of positive feedback between the development of synchronic habits, qualitative perceptions of driving times, and reinforcement of the car-using habit. The paper points out also that the diachronic dimension of habits would constitute another promising domain for further research on behavioral inertia in transportation. © 2014 Millennium Economics Ltd.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R49|Measuring Productivity and Efficiency: A Kalman|In the Kalman Filter setting, one can model the inefficiency term of the standard stochastic frontier composed error as an unobserved state. In this study a panel data version of the local level model is used for estimating time-varying efficiencies of firms. We apply the Kalman filter to estimate average efficiencies of U.S. airlines and find that the technical efficiency of these carriers did not improve during the period 1999-2009. During this period the industry incurred substantial losses, and the efficiency gains from reorganized networks, code-sharing arrangements, and other best business practices apparently had already been realized.
R49|Competitive vs. monopolistic routes: Are fares so different?|Many different carriers operating on the same route is usually regarded as a signal of a competitive setting and, therefore, as a situation potentially beneficial for customers in terms of lower prices. This is obviously true if the argument involves a comparison between different market forms given the level of demand. Across different routes, however, the number of carriers depends also on the level of demand for each particular pair of destinations, so that we cannot assume a priori that fares per kilometre on “monopolistic” routes are higher than on more “competitive” ones. We study the price policy during 2008 of the two main European low cost carriers, Ryanair and easyJet, with reference to one hundred of the least, and one hundred of the most, dense routes among those operated by the two carriers respectively. The systematic occurrence of higher (for Ryanair), or at least no lower (for easyJet), average prices on competitive routes if compared with prices on routes with a single carrier by the same airline, surprising as it may be, supports the conclusion that a low level of demand is sufficient to impose low fares to some extent irrespective of the degree of competition.
R49|A GIS model of the National Road Network in Mexico|This paper describes a benchmark methodology for building a GIS model of the National Road Network in Mexico. A model of the road network is useful because it can help to calculate the shortest route between any two locations linked to the road system. The model estimates an average speed for every section on the network according to its hierarchy, regional location, toll status and administration. Optimal routes can be estimated in terms of a time-minimisation criterion. The paper presents a statistical test that shows that the model's results have a small bias of +6 percent in comparison to observed travel times from the Mexican Ministry of Transport. This bias can be fixed using a linear transformation of estimated travel time.
R49|A regional model of road accessibility in Mexico: Accessibility surfaces and robustness analysis|This paper introduces an empirical accessibility model for Mexico based on land transport infrastructure. The model assesses an attraction-accessibility measure derived from a gravity framework. The measure is estimated on a regional basis and can be interpreted as the market potential of a region. We introduce three versions of the model: the first measures the potential restricted to the domestic market, the second considers the external sector, and the third is essentially a regional accessibility index, which captures the domestic market potential at regional level. We carry out an exhaustive analysis to test the robustness of the accessibility model and find that its behaviour is robust with respect to several criteria.
R49|Infrastructure policy in the USA–Mexico border: Evaluation and policy perspectives|This paper presents a case study of road infrastructure and its impact on accessibility and industrial productivity on the USA–Mexico border. The paper focuses on the analysis of three networks of projects that were presented in Protego (2007), a report prepared for the 35th US-Mexico Border Governors Conference in 2007. These projects comprise a series of local and interregional roads located in the western, central, and eastern areas of the border region. The analytical work uses the North American Road System Model (NARS), a GIS application to assess the effect of the infrastructure improvements on accessibility at different geographic scales. The impact of these accessibility gains on industrial productivity is also estimated. The results of the paper confirm the importance of road infrastructure in this region. They indicate that the productivity gains that can attributed to accessibility improvements are large enough to pay for the cost of new infrastructure during the life span of the project.
R49|Safety as a key performance indicator: Creating a safety culture for enhanced passenger safety, comfort, and accessibility|Modal shift from private cars to high quality public transport is often seen as a means for improved traffic safety while simultaneously achieving other policy goals. This paper aims to describe safety from a travel-chain perspective and suggests an approach for using accident data as performance indicators. Findings from a recent Swedish case study of bus accidents show that the number of unreported injury cases was very large. Official statistics failed to provide full information and drivers frequently did not report accidents to the bus operators even though they might have resulted in moderate or severe injuries. Because injuries occur travelling to or from the bus stop, during boarding and alighting, and during the ride (braking/accelerating), passengers run the risk of being injured without the bus being involved in a vehicular collision. Non-collision injuries are indicators of poor accessibility, and even “near-injuries” might affect ridership, especially among older users. Thus, it appears that the pertinent organisational/corporate culture does not prioritize safety as a quality factor even though it is sometimes mentioned as a key performance indicator. We discuss means for improved safety culture for all stakeholders and reduce injuries, increase the use of buses, and increase travel quality and comfort.
R49|Análisis De Las Empresas Concesionarias Del Servicio Público De Transporte Urbano Colectivo En España (2008-2010) / An Analysis Of Concessionaries Of The Public Service Of Urban Collective Transport Industry In Spain (2008-2010)|Dado que la movilidad es una necesidad básica en la sociedad actual, el presente trabajo analiza la estructura que, en el período 2008-2010, presentan las empresas que conforman el sector del transporte urbano de viajeros por carretera en España, reflejando las principales características del sector y deteniéndose en el estudio de la situación y de la evolución de los principales estados contables. / tSince mobility is a basic need in today’s society, the final aim of this work is to analyze the main features of the companies that conform the Spanish urban transport industry. With this purpose in mind we will analyze the main characteristics of the industry in the period 2008-2010 putting special emphasis in the study and evolution of the principal financial accounting statements.
R49|Observatorio De Costes Y Financiación Del Transporte Urbano Colectivo: Un Programa De Investigación / Cost And Funding Of Urban Transport Watchdog: A Research Program|El Observatorio de Costes y Financiación del Transporte Urbano Colectivo y sus informes anuales sobre el sector constituyen una excelente plataforma para mejorar el conocimiento de su estructura de costes, posibilitar prácticas de benchmarking a las operadoras y orientar políticas para una financiación eficiente del servicio. Constituye objetivo principal del presente trabajo divulgar el contenido y la estructura del Informe delObservatorio de Costes y Financiación del Transporte Urbano Colectivo 2008-2009, el universo poblacional objeto de estudio y la metodología aplicada tanto para la selección de la muestra analizada como para la definición de los indicadores analizados. Por último, se esbozan algunas propuestas para identificación de itinerarios de investigación de los aspectos críticos para una gestión eficiente y sostenible del servicio y se presentan las principales conclusiones del trabajo. / The Observatorio de Costes y Financiación del Transporte Urbano Colectivo (Cost and Funding of UrbanTransport Watchdog) and its annual reports on this industry provide an excellent platform to improve awareness of its cost structure, to enable benchmarking strategies/practices for companies, and to fundpolicies for an efficient public service. Alongside this, setting-up a database which includes a battery/series of comprehensive and core parameters for studying the conditions of public service provision in Spain, is a first-order information base that must be used to generate industry knowledge and develop multiple lines of research to be explored in the future. In this paper we aim to present a potential research roadmap in this area.
R49|A Strategic Analysis Of Collective Urban Transport In Spain Using The Five Forces Model / Un Análisis Estratégico De Transporte Urbano Colectivo En España Usando Elmodelo De Las Cinco Fuerzas|The transport sector in Spain is a branch of economic activity which is already of great importanceaccording to its own invoicing, value added and occupation figures, in addition to its indirect economic effects. It has an additional strategic value for economic policy, since it constitutes a fundamental part ofthe cost of placing products on increasing markets in a competitive manner. The mobility and trans-portation of passengers in cities in turn plays an essential role in the economic and social activity. All of these reasons, in addition to the recent significant problems of ustainability which this priority sector is currently confronting in all aspects, justify an interest in a study which attempts to obtaina profile of this public service by using a strategic analysis through the application of the traditional Porter Five Forces Model. The application of this model will allow us to obtain a general strategic vision which, when combined with a maturity analysis, ill provide a more in-depth knowledge of the object under study, that will serve as a basis for subsequent analyses of the collective urban public transport service. / El sector del transporte en España es una rama de la actividad económica que tiene ya una gran importan-cia por sus propias cifras de facturación, valor añadido y ocupación, así como por sus efectos económicosindirectos. Tiene un valor estratégico añadido para la política económica por constituir una parte fun-damental del coste de colocación de los productos de forma competitiva en mercados cada vez másamplios. A su vez, la movilidad y el transporte de viajeros en las ciudades tienen un papel esencialen la vertebración económica y social de estas. Todas estas razones, además de los recientes y significativos problemas de sostenibilidad que, desde todas sus vertientes, está teniendo hoy en día estesector prioritario, justifican el interés de este estudio que trata de obtener un perfil de este serviciopúblico mediante un análisis estratégico del mismo, aplicando el modelo tradicional de las Cinco Fuerzas de Porter. La aplicación de este modelo nos permitirá obtener la visión estratégica general que, complementada con un análisis de madurez, facilitará un conocimiento más profundo del sector objetode estudio que sirva de base para posteriores análisis sobre el servicio público del transporte urbanocolectivo.
R49|Financiación Del Servicio Público De Transporte Urbano: Un Estudio Empírico En Las Empresas Españolas / Financing Public Urban Transport: An Empirical Study In Spanish Companies|Los problemas en el sector del transporte público urbano, centrados en la búsqueda de una progresiva mejora en las condiciones técnicas, medioambientales y de calidad del servicio, combinada con una mejora en la eficiencia de sus recursos económicos, hacen que sea necesario diseñar, entre otras cuestiones, un sistema de financiación pública trasparente acorde a las actuales circunstancias económicas de nuestro país. Estos hechos han propiciado el interés e inquietud general en mejorar el conocimiento de la estructura y evolución económica y financiera de las empresas de este sector. Esta circunstancia favoreció la creación, en 2010, del Observatorio de Costes y Financiación del Transporte Urbano Colectivo (Observatorio TUC) que ofrece información de las condiciones de explotación y financiación de las concesionarias de transporte urbano colectivo en superficie en España, a través de la generación de medidas representativas de patrones de comportamiento en costes y financiación. A partir de los resultados de las medidas representativas del Primer Informe del Observatorio TUC (2008-2009), en este trabajo se realiza un estudio descriptivo de la estructura económico-financiera de las empresas, para identificar los factores explicativos de la problemática actual de la financiación del servicio de transporte público urbano en España. / The sensitivity in the public urban transport sector, focusing on a progressive improvement in the economic and technical management of passenger services and the need to design a transparent public finance system and according to the current economic circumstances, has led to increased interest and concern to improve the knowledge of its structure and evolution. This has encouraged the emergence of the conditions for the adoption of the initiative of the institutions that have promoted the creation of the Costs and Funding of Collective Urban Transport Watchdog (TUC Watchdog). The TUC Centre’s objectives focus on the study of the operating conditions and financing of surface urban public transport concessions in Spain, through the generation of representative measures of behavior patterns, in order to enhance the real knowledge of the sector. In this paper, we present a study of the current problems in the financing of urban public transport in Spain, from the work carried out for the first report of the TUC (2008-2009).
R49|Improving speed and frequency in the European rail system: Impact on accessibility and welfare| The report addresses passenger rail transport and its main purpose is to evaluate if and to what extent, reductions of the travel times or increases in train frequency in the European Railway System may lead to an increase in accessibility for users and a reduction of costs, resulting in an increase of consumer's surplus. Various scenarios considered. Two scenarios simulating increases of all speed to 90 km/h and 200km/h, one scenario assuming a decrease to 45 km/h and a scenario of increasing train frequency by 20% have been tested. The results provide insight into which parts of the rail network can provide higher benefits to the users through the improvement of quality of service.
R49|Future employment in transport: Analysis of labour supply and demand| This report presents the results of the analysis carried out by the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in support of DG MOVE for the analysis of employment and skills issues in the EU transport sector, with the purpose of designing the policies targeting an increased competitiveness in the sector, and improving the labour productivity and job quality. The study analyses the development of employment in various transport sectors from different viewpoints, and by means of a variety of analytical approaches. The study addresses both the supply side (i.e. the workforce capacity) and the demand side (i.e., the number of employees required in order to meet the future transport activity). In doing so it aims to identify the gap between the supply and demand side and to provide some indications on the degree of change required in the labour force dynamics in order to close this gap. The analysis mainly focuses on the quantitative discrepancies between capacity and demand, but also addresses relevant qualitative aspects including the demographic composition of the workforce.
R49|The Impact Of The German Autobahn Net On Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R49|The Impact of the German Autobahn Net on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.
R49|The Impact Of The Inormation Society On Human Capital Management (Study Case: Air Transport Enterprises)|Information society is a complex, interdisciplinary and actual concept with reference to the role of the technologies we use in all spheres of the life. The impact of the information society on human capital management is obvious as the technological tools are used daily for improvement the performance of the modern companies. In tis artice it is presented the analysis of international aviation enterprises' activity (case of Ukraine and Republic of Moldova) in the sphere of human capital management.
R49|Stimulating Mobility through Intermodal Passenger Transport|The main aim of the intermodal passenger transport is to lower the dependences on automobiles as a main mean for movement as well as to enhance public transport usage. In the sphere of passenger transport there still exist many tasks to perform in order to facilitate travel conditions and interchanges between modes. All this is still problematic. Passengersusing several modes of transport for one trip have different problems and interests and they often stay in the background. This article it intended to describe the specific features of the intermodal passenger transport, its advantages and offsets, the development of intermodal hubs as well as the necessity of Intermodal Journey Planners development and their elements. The trends for current development of the intermodal passenger transport are concluded and the challenges it faces are identified. All this issues are studied in the light of maintaining the mobility in EU.
R49|Evaluation of the Efficiency of Economic Activity of Inland Ports at the Bulgarian Section of the Danube River|The paper is devoted to the study of the efficiency of economic activity of inland ports at the Bulgarian section of the Danube River. In this regard a system of economic indicators (cargo turnover of Bulgarian river ports; total revenues; average number of persons employed; average stay of a vessel at inland ports; average wage costs and investment costs for maintenance and development of Bulgarian inland ports) will be analyzed. In the study is proposed a model for evaluation of the efficiency of ports traditional and complementary services. It is composed a rectangular matrix that reveals the correlations between indicating factors and performance indicators. As a result of the analysis are summarized the problems that hinder the economic activity of Bulgarian river ports and their superstructure and key measures for their development are proposed.
R49|Roads and Trade: Evidence from the US|We estimate the effect of interstate highways on the level and composition of trade for US cities. Highways within cities have a large effect on the weight of city exports with an elasticity of approximately 0.5. We find little effect of highways on the total value of exports. Consistent with this, we find that cities with more highways specialize in sectors producing heavy goods.
R49|The social and environmental sustainability of the maritime industry|Although in the recent years the trend is changing, still few international academic papers on this topic are available. On the other hand, there is a total void by national academicians regarding the production of literature on social and environmental sustainability of the maritime industry in parallel as in multiple aspects related to the maritime chain and the supply chain management seen in its global assumptions. Nevertheless, sustainability in its different components – economical, social and environmental – is becoming a major concern for citizens, on the basis of participatory citizenship or as aggregated sources of social capital, public and private policy makers and governments. As concern about climate change grows and that the events of maritime disasters multiply, there is an entire industry, which despite of being vital to the world economy and for the welfare of the people, continues to be managed in a way that requires no more regulation but their actual application. An industry for the future but at the same time one that largely contributes to emissions and several forms of air and marine pollution and which cannot continue to use the planet seas and oceans as sewage. Thus, we chose to extract from scratch the fundamentals through elaborate work of collecting and analysing institutional information and by unroll the intricate web that this issue, being transversal to the entire maritime industry, incorporates. So we focused on the norms and laws issued by agencies and sectoral organizations of regulatory nature and the methodology is based in the paradoxical confrontation between occurrences and existing legislation.
R49|The Liberalization process of the Ferry System in Greece, 2001-2014 (August): What are the benefits to users of Aegean Sea Transportation?|The great deficits created in the pursuit of the Keynesian welfare state led to governmental failure. This increasingly posed a greater risk to financial system than market failure, due to the increasing scale effects. Competition ceases to exist. The operations of markets first described by Adam Smith (1776) and confirmed by Alfred Marshall (1920). As a result of the increasing risk of governmental failure, legal barriers to ‘entry’ removed (liberalization) and private ownership promoted (privatization). Here, we investigate the impact of the ‘liberalization processes of (private)’ ‘Aegean Ferry System’ since 2001, and look at the effect on passenger fares and private cars freight rates under ‘free entry’. Quality of service was never regulated…We showed the existence of increasing returns to scale in the ferry system and in the individual ship, basing our arguments on empirical data and on theory. The fixed cost of the ferry system is 68%, indicating failure of the ferry market, when prices had to be determined by marginal cost leading to operational losses, since average cost is twice greater than marginal cost. Despite the hopes of the users that Greek Aegean ferry system’s liberalization would lead to reduction in fares and freight rates, this did not happen. Reforms paralleled those in air transport in USA, and a similar “hub and spoke” network system proposed and adopted careless by Greece, following the ÓÅÈÁÌ study. Fares and private car freight rates rose in a series of waves, owners frequently blaming the rising oil prices…
R49|A Practical Method to estimate the Benefits of Improved Network Reliability: An Application to Departing Air Passengers|This paper develops a practical approach to estimate the benefits of improved reliability of road networks. We present a general methodology to estimate the (changes in) scheduling costs due to (changes in) travel time variability for car travel. We focus on situations where only mean delays are known, which are the typical output of a standard transport model. We show how to generate travel time distributions from these mean delays, which we use to estimate the scheduling costs of the travellers, taking into account their optimal departure time choice. We illustrate the methodology for car access by air passengers to Amsterdam airport and show how improvements of the highway network lead to shorter expected travel times, lower travel time variability, later departure times and reduced access costs. We find that on average the resulting absolute decrease in access costs per trip is small, mainly because most air passengers drive to the airport outside the peak hours. However, the relative reduction in access costs due to improvements in network reliability is substantial. For every 1-Euro reduction in mean travel time costs, there is an additional cost reduction of about 0.75-0.85 Euro due to lower travel time variability and hence lower scheduling costs. Our results thus show that the total benefits from infrastructure improvements are about 80% higher when benefits due to better reliability are taken into account in addition to the savings in mean travel time alone.
R49|The Impact of Transport Infrastructure on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study For Germany Using Historical Instrument Variables|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Sensitivity of economists during market allocation|"In this study, it was found that economists were sensitive to different commodities based on their attitudes in terms of fairness toward the price mechanism, whereas non-economists did not exhibit significant sensitivity. This sensitivity was so strong that no self-selection effect could be found in economists in the case of a survey of a basic commodity, whereas there was a clear self-selection effect with a luxury commodity. After one semester with intensive expo-sure to microeconomic theory, the market affinity of economists increased in both cases, but their sensitivity persisted. Surprisingly, it was the allocation mechanism of ""first come, first served"" and not the price mechanism that was affected more in terms of fairness. The latter reflects equal treatment in terms of general perceptions, thus this could be interpreted as an increased aversion to inequality among economists."
R49|Cooperation And Competition In The Airline Market|You cannot compete in time with airlines on transcontinental runs, but you can outstrip them in comfort, safety, dependability of service, and also show the passenger the countryside. This, we believe, is a permanent market (Edward G. Budd Jr, speech before the American Association of Passenger Traffic Officers, Chicago, 24 April 1957) After numerous studies made by various scientists, after 1800, it has been concluded that people would function more efficiently if they cooperate. However, not only families and communities, but also educational systems encourage competition, because it is seen as the only way to achieve success, by doing that, the power of cooperation is completely ignored. Still, from an economic point of view, cooperation and competition represent essential elements of progress, both being parts of the corporate culture. This paper proposes research in the evolution of alliances in airline companies, the regulations of the domain, with consideration of a competitive labor market, the efficiency and the benefits among consumers.
R49|A constructive technology assessment of stationary energy storage systems: prospective life cycle orientated analysis|Environmental concerns over the use of fossil fuels and their resource constraints have increased the interest in generating electric energy from renewable energy sources (RES) to provide a sustainable electricity supply. A main problem of those technologies (wind or solar power generation) is that they are not constant and reliable sources of power. This results inter alia in an increased demand of energy storage technologies. Related stake holders show a big interest in the technical, economic and ecologic aspects of new emerging energy storage systems. This comes especially true for electrochemical energy storage systems as different Li-Ion batteries, Sodium Sulfur or Redox Flow batteries which can be utilized in all grid voltage levels, a wide range of grid applications as well as end user groups (e.g. private households, industry). A prospective and active Constructive Technology Assessment (CTA) can help to minimize potential mismatches, wrong investments, possible social conflicts, and environmental impacts of new energy storage technologies in an early development stage. It is insufficient to exclusively look at the operation phase to assess a technology. Such an approach can lead to misleading interpretations and can furthermore disregard social or ecological impact factors over the whole life cycle. Different energy storage technologies have to be evaluated in a prospective manner with a full integrated sustainability and life cycle approach to form a base for decision making and to support technology developers in order to allow distinctions between more or less sustainable battery technology variations. Therefore CTA is used as a scientific approach using several “neighbouring” engineering orientated disciplines e.g. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), Social Life Cycle Assessment (SLCA) or Life Cycle Costs (LCC) and their methodologies which were initially developed for other purposes.The aim of the presented PhD Thesis is to make an economic, technological and ecological comparison of Energy storage technologies based on a life cycle sustainability Analysis (LCSA), multi criteria Analysis (or evaluation) (MCA) and to develop a suitable LCSA-MCA model through a new combined highly interdisciplinary approach in frame of CTA.
R49|The location of manufacturing firms and imperfect information in transport market|It is well know that transport charges are not symmetric: fronthaul and backhaul costs on a route may differ, because they are affected by the distribution of economic acitivities. This paper develops a two-regional general equilibrium model in which transport costs are determined endogenously as a result of a search and matching process. It is shown that economies or diseconomies of transport density emerge, depending on the search costs of transport firms and the relative importance of the possibility of backhaul transportation. It is found that the symmetry of the distribution of economic activity may break owing to economies of transport density when the additional search costs are small enough.
R49|On the Efficiency of the Italian Logistic Providers|The aim of the work is to analyse the efficiency of the Italian logistic providers in 2006-2010, basing on accounting information. In the last years, several studies have underlined the importance of the logistic sector on the efficiency of the domestic productive system, and they have also underlined the potential influence on the regionalcompetitiveness. Despite of this, there is only a few of studies specifically dedicated to evaluation of this issue, or to the competitive position of the logistic firms in terms of efficiency.For this reason, this paper focuses on the efficiency level of the Italian logistic providers in order to highlight the trend in the last 5 years. To develop the research, several data has been collected from the main logistic firms, mainly using the CEBIL-CERVED database. In order to estimate the efficiency value, it has been used a non-parametric model (Data Envelopment Analysis), with the aim to analyse also the evolution of the market structure.
R49|Road Connectivity and the Border Effect: Evidence from Europe|Several studies have reported a large negative effect of national borders on the volume of trade. We provide new estimates of the border effect for continental Europe using road rather than great circle – or “as-crows-fly” – distance. Road distances for 48 180 European city pairs have been extracted from Bing Maps Routing Services. As our dataset also has information on travel time, we are able to consider costs related to time in addition to those depending on distance. We find that for the same great circle distance and the same city size, the road distance between two cities located in the same country is around 10% shorter than that between cities located in different ones. Travel speed is also higher between cities in the same country. We find that by using measures based on the actual road distance rather than the great circle distance, the negative effect of international borders on goods trade in a standard gravity equation is lowered by around 15%. Time-related trade costs account for an additional 10% reduction in the border effect. Overall these results point to the importance of road networks – and road transport policy in general – to enhance market integration. La connectivité routière et l'effet frontière : données concernant l'Europe Plusieurs études font état d’un effet négatif très prononcé des frontières nationales sur le volume des échanges. Nous livrons de nouvelles estimations de l’effet frontière en Europe continentale en utilisant les distances routières au lieu des distances orthodromiques – c’est-à-dire « à vol d’oiseau ». Les distances routières de 48 180 paires de villes européennes sont issues du service de calcul d’itinéraires de Bing Cartes. Étant donné que notre ensemble de données comporte aussi des informations sur les temps de trajet, nous sommes en mesure de prendre en compte les coûts liés au temps, en plus de ceux qui dépendent de la distance. Nous constatons qu’à distance orthodromique et taille d’agglomération égales, la distance routière entre deux villes d’un même pays est inférieure de 10 % environ à celle qui sépare des villes situées dans des pays différents. De même, la distance est parcourue plus rapidement lorsque les villes se trouvent dans le même pays. Nous observons qu’en utilisant des mesures établies sur la distance routière effective, plutôt que sur la distance orthodromique, l’effet négatif des frontières internationales sur les échanges de marchandises dans une équation de gravité standard diminue d’environ 15 %. Les coûts des échanges liés à la durée des trajets sont à l’origine d’une réduction supplémentaire de 10 % de l’effet frontière. Dans l’ensemble, ces résultats font ressortir l’importance des réseaux routiers – et de la politique du transport routier en général – pour renforcer l’intégration des marchés.
R49|Road Connectivity and the Border Effect: Evidence from Europe|Several studies have reported a large negative effect of national borders on the volume of trade. We provide new estimates of the border effect for continental Europe using road rather than great circle – or “as-crows-fly” – distance. Road distances for 48 180 European city pairs have been extracted from Bing Maps Routing Services. As our dataset also has information on travel time, we are able to consider costs related to time in addition to those depending on distance. We find that for the same great circle distance and the same city size, the road distance between two cities located in the same country is around 10% shorter than that between cities located in different ones. Travel speed is also higher between cities in the same country. We find that by using measures based on the actual road distance rather than the great circle distance, the negative effect of international borders on goods trade in a standard gravity equation is lowered by around 15%. Time-related trade costs account for an additional 10% reduction in the border effect. Overall these results point to the importance of road networks – and road transport policy in general – to enhance market integration.
R49|The Causality Relationship between the Dry Bulk Market and Worldwide Economic Growth|Without shipping, worldwide trade, the bulk transport of raw materials and the operations of import-export of food and manufactured goods would not be possible. Therefore, shipping is likely to be a driver of worldwide economic growth, but growth in the shipping industry is also driven by worldwide economic expansion itself. The purpose of this study is to examine the causality relationship between the dry bulk market and worldwide economic growth during the time interval 1985 – 2012 by applying a vector autoregressive model.
R49|È solo la punta dell'iceberg! Costi e ricavi del crocierismo a venezia|Una vivace polemica agita le acque della laguna di Venezia. L’attracco di navi da crociera sempre più grandi e più numerose, rappresenta un costo o un beneficio per Venezia? Quanto dovrebbero essere disposti a sacrificare i residenti rispetto a quello che possono aspettarsi da questa forma di turismo? Questo lavoro studia l’impatto economico delle navi da crociera a Venezia. Se una nave porta o fa perdere soldi alla città dipende dalle spese dei passeggeri, degli equipaggi e delle compagnie in città ma anche dalle diseconomie esterne che si associano al traffico delle navi da crociera. Le gigantesche navi da crociera generano costi sociali e ambientali per la città derivanti da emissioni nell’atmosfera, dall’inquinamento delle acque, dall'effetto serra e tali costi sono, per la prima volta, stimati. L’evoluzione morfodinamica della laguna di Venezia è messa in pericolo dai profondi canali necessari per portare le navi alla Stazione Marittima, il porto storico di Venezia, che sorge a poche centinaia di metri dal centro storico della città.
R49|The Importance Of International Registries For Naval Transport|Open and international registries have provided for a period of time an attractive method to shipowners wanted to minimize operating costs, for example, levying low or no tax on ship profits and imposing no manning restrictions, and on many occasions by escaping legislative implementation and administrative control. Seven countries from EU have a second or international register. Nowadays, about half of the world’s merchant ships were registered with open registries. The aim of the present paper is to analyze the international registries and their importance on shipping market.
R49|Impact of urban public transport enhancements on crime rate: a diff-diff analysis for the case of Transmilenio|One of the biggest questions of agglomerations today focuses on the problem of the public transport supply. To deal with this, Bogota has developed a new urban transport system that has had worldwide recognition since 2000: Transmilenio. While most studies have focused on studying the impact of this new public transport system with respect to the environment, hedonic prices, employment and urbanism, among others, none (except one) have studied the question of the evolution of crime linked to the existence of Transmilenio. The aim of this article is to demonstrate that the evolution of urban transport, which is traduced on the construction and on the improvements of Transmilenio, has had a direct impact on the crime rates in the city. By collecting a set of spatially referenced data regarding crimes in 112 of the 117 planning zones that make up the city, this research follows a differences-in-differences methodology to test the causality of the transport system in the evolution of crime rates in each zone for different periods. After a deep descriptive analysis of data and the implementation of the econometric methodology suggested, results indicate that enhancement of the public transport system has had no clear impact on crime rates in all zones of the city. Depending on the zones and on the Transmilenio line in question, the transport system may increase or decrease the number of crimes on each zone beneficiaries or not from the improvement of the system. However, this research gives a non-negligible number of hints to take in consideration on further studies.
R49|De ruimtelijke metamorfose van Schiphol: van polderdorp naar nevelstad<BR>[Spatial metamorphosis of Schiphol Airport: from polder village to a nebula city]|De geschiedschrijving van vliegvelden en hun metamorfose in metropolitaanse gebieden is onlosmakelijk verbonden met processen van verstedelijking, decentralisatie, economische groei en de ruimtelijke aanwas van steden, buitenwijken en regio’s. Die processen worden niet door enig ontwerp gestuurd, maar door veranderingen in grond-en gebouwengebruik en bewegingen van mensen, goederen, kapitaal, diensten, informatie en de infrastructurele netwerken die de wonende en werkende mens in beweging brengen. Het gaat daarbij om functionele patronen in de bewegingen en transacties die op hun beurt weer invloed hebben op de ruimtelijke structuren, dat wil zeggen de fysieke verschijningsvorm die dergelijke activiteiten ter plekke produceren. In dit (hoofd)stuk willen we inzichtelijk maken hoe de groeistuipen van Schiphol eraan hebben bijgedragen dat het noordwestelijke deel van de Randstad is uitgegroeid tot een bijzonder metropolitaans gebied met een eigen stedelijke structuur en cultuur. Dat verschijnsel hebben we nevelstad genoemd. Hier analyseren we vooral de groeiprocessen zoals die hebben plaatsgevonden in de regio rond Schiphol: in Amsterdam en de Haarlemmermeer. Hier ontstond een verneveling die zich vanaf de jaren zestig over het westen van Nederland snel heeft uitgebreid, tot aan de Brabantse stedenrij toe.
R49|Welche Rolle können Biokraftstoffe im Verkehrssektor spielen?|Biofuels have been the only alternative fuel which has substantially contributed to supplying transport with energy. Biofuels enjoyed broad support, but now they have come under criticism. In order to obtain answers to the question of what role biofuels could play in the future fuel mix, the following aspects are analysed: competing uses of scarce biomass and biofuels; sustainability of biofuels, standards and certification schemes; types and availability of biofuels; potentials for bioenergy and biofuels; and the technical compatibility of biofuels with vehicles. Finally, preconditions and necessary policy measures for the increased deployment of sustainable biofuels are examined. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
R49|How big is the impact of infrastructure on trade? Evidence from meta-analysis|Low levels of infrastructure quality and quantity can create trade impediments through increased transport costs. Since the late 1990s an increasing number of trade studies have taken infrastructure into account. The purpose of the present paper is to quantify the importance of infrastructure for trade by means of meta-analysis and meta-regression techniques that synthesize various studies. The type of infrastructure that we focus on is mainly public infrastructure in transportation and communication. We examine the impact of infrastructure on trade by means of estimates obtained from 36 primary studies that yielded 542 infrastructure elasticities of trade. We explicitly take into account that infrastructure can be measured in various ways and that its impact depends on the location of the infrastructure. We estimate several meta-regression models that control for observed heterogeneity in terms of variation across different methodologies, infrastructure types, geographical areas and their economic features, model specifications, and publication characteristics. Additionally, random effects account for between-study unspecified heterogeneity, while publication bias is explicitly addressed by means of the Hedges model. After controlling for all these issues we find that a 1 per cent increase in own infrastructure increases exports by about 0.6 per cent and imports by about 0.3 per cent. Such elasticities are generally larger for developing countries, land infrastructure, IV or panel data estimation, and macro-level analyses. They also depend on the inclusion or exclusion of various common covariates in trade regressions
R49|The criminality sprawl: The 'Boomerang effect' of public transport improvements|This paper aims to reveal the importance of public transport policies in the evolution of crime configuration and so, the vital responsibility of urban transports and criminality in social sprawl, entrepreneurial configuration and social structure on a city. Public transport policies have an essential role on criminal behavior and its evolution. Nevertheless, the relationship between accessibility or the degree of improvement of urban transports and criminality was underestimated and even almost forgotten. Adopting the hypothesis that the degree of transports improvements depends on the number enterprises on each zone, this study suggest that transport improvements degree impacts directly on the criminality rates of the city. Nevertheless, the magnitude of this impact depends on the observed type of the crime in a zone and on the concentration of that crime on other ones. This article developed a 2SLS model for each type of crime (5) in order to demonstrate the endogeneity and thus the causal relation of transport enhancements with respect to the criminal spread on the city of BogotÃ¡. A spatial econometrics study is also done in order to show that the number and the kind of crime on each zone of the city may directly depend on criminality of other zones. Results suggest that, the number of some types of crimes on each zone depend directly on the level of improvements of publics transports and that an increase of accessibility reflected by a bigger presence of public transport improvements in a zone, may share out criminality to other zones of the city. Since there are more stations of Transmilenio, not only workers or students can travel more easily everywhere in the city but also offenders. Actually, after the enhancement of public transports, offenders may reach more easily zones and neighborhoods that they were unaccustomed to go. Negatives externalities like the better mobility of offenders and then, their possible choice to expand their criminal activity to new zones, can spoil positives effects of enhancements of public transports. Far from suggesting to not develop public transports or to isolate some 'dangerous' neighborhoods or inhabitants, this article shows that improvements of public transports may not only generate positive externalities. Policy makers should take in consideration the mutation and the shift of criminals in order to identify possible solution before the adoption of improvements of public transports on each zone and avoid that a 'boomerang effect' of improvements transports take place.
R49|An Indicator to Measure Inequality in the Provision of Local Public Transport in Italy|An indicator measuring inequality in the provision of local public transport was constructed in order to compare service levels in 20 Italian regional capital cities and analyze emerging criticalities. The indicator aims at identifying the level of measurable rather than perceived public transport effectiveness. Consequently, measurable features such as network coverage (capillarity), frequency, extent of transit lanes, passenger information systems, are considered, whereas features closely tied to personal expectations and tastes (e.g. customer satisfaction/dissatisfaction) are excluded. The relevance of this method derives from the possibility of using this approach for the analysis of the sector of the LPT in other countries, allowing as a consequence, to compare the local transport sector between cities in different countries.
R49|Benefits of low carbon development in a developing country: Case of Nepal|This paper analyzes the direct and indirect benefits of reducing CO2 emission during 2005 to 2100 in the case of Nepal, a low income developing country rich in hydropower resource. It discusses the effects on energy supply mix, local pollutant emissions, energy security and energy system costs of CO2 emission reduction targets in the country by using an energy system model based on the MARKAL framework. The study considers three cases of CO2 emission reduction targets and analyzes their benefits during the study period as compared to the reference scenario. The first two cases consist of a 20% cutback (Scenario ERT20) and 40% cutback (Scenario ERT40) (of CO2 emission in the reference scenario). The third case considers a 40% cutback of CO2 emission with the share of electric mass transport (EMT) in the land transport service demand increased to 30% (as compared to 20% in the reference scenario). The study shows that an implementation of Scenario ERT40 would increase the cumulative electricity generation (mainly from hydropower) by 16.5% (794 TWh), reduce the cumulative consumption of imported fuels by 42% (24,400 PJ) and increase the total energy system cost by 1.6% during 2005 to 2100 as compared to the reference scenario. Besides, there would be a reduction in the emission of local pollutants and generation of additional employment in the country. With the share of EMT increased to 30%, there would be a further reduction in local pollutant emissions, an improvement in energy security and a decrease in the energy system cost compared to that in Scenario ERT40.
R49|Impacts of urbanization on national transport and road energy use: Evidence from low, middle and high income countries|Few attempts have been made to investigate quantitatively and systematically the impact of urbanization on transport energy use for countries of different stages of economic development. This paper examines the influence of urbanization on national transport and road energy use for low, middle and high income countries during 1975–2005, using the Stochastic Impacts by Regression on Population, Affluence and Technology (STIRPAT) model. After controlling for population size, income per capita and the share of services in the economy, the main results suggest that urbanization influences national transport and road energy use positively. However, the magnitude of its influence varies among the three income groups. Changes in urbanization appear to have a greater impact on transport and road energy use in the high income group than in the other groups. Surprisingly, the urbanization elasticities of transport and road energy use in the middle income group are smaller than those of the low income group. This study not only sheds further light on the existing literature, but also provides policy makers with insightful information on the link between urbanization and transport energy use at the three different stages of development.
R49|Parking management, financial subsidies to alternatives to drive alone and commute mode choices in Seattle|This paper develops a nested logit model to examine the impact of parking management, financial subsidies to alternative modes to drive alone, as well as travel demand management strategies on people's commute mode choices in Seattle based on the Washington State Commute Trip Reduction dataset in 2005. The major findings of this paper suggest that commuter's mode choice can be affected by various public policy tools. In particular, we find commuters' drive alone to work rate decreases as a response to higher SOV parking charges, higher HOV parking discount, and lower onsite parking space ratio. When employers provide reserved parking for HOV and HOV fleet vehicles for shared riders, commuters' likelihood to share ride to work also increases. Commuters also respond to direct financial subsidies to alternative modes positively.
R49|Valuations of travel time variability in scheduling versus mean-variance models|The standard method of estimating the value of travel time variability for use in policy appraisal is to estimate the parameters of a reduced-form utility function, where some measure of travel time variability (such as the standard deviation) is included. A problem with this approach is that the obtained valuation will in general depend on the standardized travel time distribution, and hence cannot be transferred from one context to another. A recently suggested remedy of this problem has been to estimate a scheduling model, which in theory is transferrable, and use the implied reduced-form to derive valuations for use in appraisal. In this paper we estimate both a scheduling model and the implied reduced-form model, using stated choice data. The valuation of travel time variability implied by the scheduling model turns out to be substantially smaller than what is obtained from a reduced-form model estimated on the same sample. The results suggest that the scheduling model does not capture all of the disutility arising from travel time variability. Hence, although it can be shown that scheduling and reduced-form models are “theoretically equivalent”, that hypothesized equivalence is not reflected in the empirical evidence. We speculate that the derivation of reduced-form models from an underlying scheduling model omits two essential features: first, the notion of an exogenously fixed “preferred arrival time” neglects the fact that most activities can be rescheduled given full information about the travel times in advance, and second, disutility may be derived from uncertainty as such, in the form of anxiety, decisions costs or costs for having contingency plans. We also report our estimates of the valuation of travel time variability for public transit trips, for use in applied appraisal.
R49|CGE Analysis of Transportation Cost and Regional Economy: East Asia and Northern Kyushu|This study develops a multi-region computable general equilibrium model (CGE model), which analyzes the influence on a regional economy of a reduction in the transportation cost. The reduction in transportation cost is, in a word, reduction of the logistics cost. Logistic competition has accelerated with recent economic development. The Northern Kyushu region, which is the focal region of this study, is located near East Asian countries, including China and South Korea, but this area has fallen behind in the logistic competition. Therefore, immediate countermeasures are needed. This study analyzes the economic effect on the Northern Kyushu region and on surrounding regions of the cost reduction caused by the logistic policy of the Northern Kyushu region. To achieve this purpose, several assumptions were made in the CGE model. First, the study analyzes 10 regions, namely Fukuoka City, Kitakyushu City, the rest of Fukuoka Prefecture, and Yamaguchi Prefecture (the northern Kyushu area consists of these regions), the rest of Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan, ASEAN countries, and the USA. Second, in the production system, the transportation industry engenders transportation costs and these are added to the price of the commodity. Third, increasing returns to scale which Fujita et al. (1999) suggest was utilized for the manufacturing industry. Fourth, the number of firms belonging to industries with increasing returns was calculated endogenously based on the above assumption. As a result, the logistic improvement will be shown to have had an economic effect, including an increase in the number of firms in the Northern Kyushu region.
R49|Mental maps and travel behaviour: meanings and models|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Increasing returns in transportation and the formation of hubs|The spatial structure of transport networks is subject to increasing returns in transportation, distance, and density economies. Transport costs between locations are thus, in general, endogenous, and are determined by the interaction between the spatial distribution of transport demand and these increasing returns, although such interdependence has long been ignored in regional models. By using a simple model, the present paper investigates the characteristics of viable hub structures (in terms of spacing and hierarchical relations) given the presence of density and distance economies in transportation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R49|Urban Growth and Transportation| We estimate the effects of interstate highways on the growth of U.S. cities between 1983 and 2003. We find that a 10% increase in a city's initial stock of highways causes about a 1.5% increase in its employment over this 20 year period. To estimate a structural model of urban growth and transportation, we rely on an instrumental variables estimation that uses a 1947 plan of the interstate highway system, an 1898 map of railroads, and maps of the early explorations of the U.S. as instruments for 1983 highways. Copyright , Oxford University Press.
R49|Spatial Allocation of Economy as a Fiber Bundle|This paper considers the approach to specification and modeling of transport influence on spatial allocation of economy, which is essentially new for economics. By applying the concept of fiber bundle, a general model of spatial allocation of market with regard to transport costs is developed. Corresponding mathematical formulation of model equilibrium condition and transition dynamics is stated based on the principle of least action and gauge invariance. Further development of obtained theoretical results within the framework is reviewed.
R49|Economic and Social Harmonization of Sustainable Public Transport|The paper identifies, formulates and resolves several problems arising from dealing with the economic and social pillars of sustainable public transport. In the first part of the paper three pillars of sustainable transport are presented. The second part studies harmonization problems of economic, spatial and time accessibility of public transport and illustrates them by the Czech situation. The third part studies the cost-revenue-subsidy relation, emphasizes the right choice of fares and suggests a harmonization between the prices of the ticket for individual trip and the monthly one. The fourth part shows several important measures for getting the economic and social acceptability of public transport service, namely optimal choice of rolling stock structure, routes and frequencies, vehicle and crew scheduling.
R49|The successes and failures of a key transportation link: accessibility effects of Taiwan’s high-speed rail|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|A Rank-dependent Scheduling Model| This paper proposes an analytical framework for the scheduling decisions of road travellers that takes into account probability weighting using rank-dependent utility theory. The fundamental difference with the standard scheduling model based on expected utility is that the probabilities of arrivals are treated in a non-linear way. This paper shows how scheduling decisions are affected by the weighted probabilities of the traveller. We derive the costs of non-optimal chosen departure times because of probability weighting and show that if the parameterised probability weighting function is similar to what has been found for gambling, the costs of probability weighting for morning peak car travellers are around 3 per cent. For the full range of parameters tested, we find costs in the range of 0-24 per cent of total travel costs. © 2012 LSE and the University of Bath
R49|Political determinants of sustainable transport in Latin American cities|This paper examines patterns within the broad trends towards sustainability in transport systems of Latin American cities. We provide an empirical characterization of the sustainability levels for several urban transport systems in this region, and use it as the base for comparing and contrasting the levels of engagement of each city with the principles of sustainability in transport. We perform this characterization by composing a ranking that rates transport sustainability as an aggregation of its three core dimensions: social, economic, and environmental. We present this ranking as the 'Green Transport Index for Latin American Cities'.
R49|Modelling commuter patterns: a spatial microsimulation approach for combining regional and micro level data|Transport to work is a universal phenomenon, but is uneven over space. The distribution of mode and distance statistics vary depending on a range of factors. The scale of analysis (from individual to local and regional levels), the location of the study area (e.g. urban or rural settlements), and the socio-economic characteristics of the target population all influence commuter patterns. This heterogeneity is problematic for decision makers tasked with encouraging more sustainable and less costly commuter patterns based on transport to work statistics. Existing studies on commuting fail to consider the multiple levels at which transport systems operate, and leave important questions unanswered. For example, should policies target individuals, local areas, or regions, and at what level should they operate for maximum benefit? This paper outlines this research problem, and then describes an approach for tackling it based on a case study of Yorkshire and the Humber, an economically peripheral region of the UK. Our spatial microsimulation model uses iterative proportional fitting (IPF) to simulate the characteristics of individual commuters, in terms of socio-economic class, age, sex, and income, while geographically aggregated commuter statistics are constrained by Census data. This represents a novel application of spatial microsimulation, to model commuter behaviour. The approach has the potential to allow 'what if' scenarios to be undertaken, and opens up the possibility of dynamic microsimulation to policy makers. This latter possibility is attractive because it allows scenario-based projections of the future for the evaluation of policy assumptions. The results of the static model illustrate the importance of accounting for variability at the individual level when devising transport policies. The method is discussed with respect to long term transport policy objectives at the EU level. In conclusion, our approach could provide valuable information for policy evaluation at individual, local and regional levels. Keywords: spatial microsimulation, commuting, transport policy JEL Code: R49
R49|The impact of low emission zones on PM10 levels in urban areas in Germany|High levels of particulate matter scaling less than 10 micrometers in diameter (PM10) in many urban areas have led to the introduction of binding PM10 limit values by the European Commission in 2005. Road transport in inner city areas is believed to be one of the main contributors to accumulated PM10 levels and, thus, is the focus of regulation. One of the strongest regulatory mechanisms to meet the new PM10 air quality standard is the introduction of low emission zones (LEZs) in Germany. This policy allows local authorities to define geographical areas in urban agglomerations as LEZs, into which vehicles that do not meet predetermined emission standards are prohibited from entering. This paper evaluates the effectiveness of LEZs on reducing PM10 levels in German cities. We employ a fixed effects panel data model to analyze the effects of LEZs on daily PM10 levels using data from 2000 to 2009. We take into account daily data for meteorological conditions and traffic volume. The results of the analysis reveal that the introduction of LEZs has significantly reduced daily PM10 levels in urban areas. We can also show that PM10 levels are significantly driven down further when LEZ standards in cities become more stringent over time.
R49|One for the road: Public transportation, alcohol consumption, and intoxicated driving|We exploit arguably exogenous train schedule changes in Washington DC to investigate the relationship between public transportation, the risky decision to consume alcohol, and the criminal decision to engage in alcohol-impaired driving. Using variation over time, across days of the week, and over the course of the day, we provide evidence that overall there was little effect of expanded public transit service on DUI arrests, alcohol related fatal traffic and alcohol related arrests. However, we find that these overall effects mask considerable heterogeneity across geographic areas. Specifically, we find that areas where bars are within walking distance to transit stations experience increases in alcohol related arrests and decreases in DUI arrests. We observe no sign of behavioral changes in neighborhoods without any bars within walking distance of transit stations.
R49|One for the road: Public transportation, alcohol consumption, and intoxicated driving|We exploit arguably exogenous train schedule changes in Washington DC to investigate the relationship between public transportation, the risky decision to consume alcohol, and the criminal decision to engage in alcohol-impaired driving. Using variation over time, across days of the week, and over the course of the day, we provide evidence that overall there was little effect of expanded public transit service on DUI arrests, alcohol related fatal traffic and alcohol related arrests. However, we find that these overall effects mask considerable heterogeneity across geographic areas. Specifically, we find that areas where bars are within walking distance to transit stations experience increases in alcohol related arrests and decreases in DUI arrests. We observe no sign of behavioral changes in neighborhoods without any bars within walking distance of transit stations.
R49|Direct and Indirect Effects of Accessibility: Infrastructure and Regional Access|Nowadays the topic of accessibility is becoming more and more popular as a national and international research field of study. Regarding its aim, the main question is about the connection between the adequate accessibility and development tendencies (Tóth 2007; Tagai 2007; Dusek and Szalkai 2007; Watanabe 1995). Accessibility as well as the infrastructure is defined in different ways according to the different approaches in the economic literature. Generally it is declared that the location of a place is inadequate if it is not easily accessible. According to Nemes Nagy (2007) the opposite statement can also occur: e.g., from a military or defence point of view, tough accessibility can be a positive term; in the case of tourism it can be also an attraction, appreciating the “resort value” of a territory.Tóth (2006) cites Keeble with the definition of accessibility (as the main product of transportation); regarding Keeble, the peripherality is synonymous with the relative accessibility (or lack) of the economic activity. Problems arise in the case of these territories, because the accessibility terms do not increase with the extension of infrastructure, namely the large investments take place where the demand arises, so the benefiting places are mostly the centre or core areas.Accessibility and its “tool”, infrastructural extension, can be measured in several ways, as I discussed in my earlier research work (Győrffy 2010). During the examination of accessibility, we consider roles and spatial movements, and the targets are usually the capital city, the regional centre, the county capitals and the motorway junctions (Bajmócy and Kiss 1999; Edelényi 2004; Kocziszky 2004; Nemes Nagy 2009). In this paper, I analyse the accessibility of all the Hungarian subregions, taking the time and distance connections in a 174*173 matrix. Further on I analysed the relationship between the development data and accessibility indicators particularly in terms of centre-periphery relations. I tried to find out that improvement of the road infrastructure through the better accessibility what kind of spillover accompanies, how it effects on the social-economical position of a region, or can we talk about direct effect at all?
R49|From Airfield to Airport: An Institutionalist-Historical Approach to the Early Development of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, 1916-1940|In this article, the development of Dutch airports during the antebellum period from military airfields to mixed-airfields and finally to a municipal airports is examined from an institutionalist-historical approach. Specific attention is given to the evolution of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol within a regional socioeconomic context and within a national context of local competition, particularly between the big cities in Randstad Holland. This article argues that the rise and development of Schiphol and its impact on the surrounding urban area (city and the region) can be characterized as a coevolutionary process involving different actors within various domains— economic, political, and institutional—and at different spatial levels. Airport development, therefore, has to be conceived as the result of a collective arrangement that has determined the spatial and economic development of the airport itself and the surrounding area.
R49|Referencing, Gains-Losses Asymmetry And Non-Linear Sensitivities In Commuter Decisions: One Size Does Not Fit All!|In contrast with expected utility theory, empirical findings indicate that decisionmakers are sensitive to departures from reference points rather than states. Several tests of the reference-dependent preference framework have been carried out in experimental economics, and to a smaller extent in a choice modelling setting, to date. However, these empirical applications have generally focussed on a single behavioural phenomenon using uniform modelling approaches. This paper aims to broaden existing work by presenting a multi-attribute framework, allowing contemporarily for gain-loss asymmetry, non-linearity and testing for several possible reference points. The framework is tested in the context of commuter choices and reveals important gains in model fit and further insights into behaviour compared to standard modelling approaches, including substantial impacts on implied welfare measures.
R49|O niektorých aspektoch teoretického vymedzenia liberalizácie leteckej dopravy|Cieľom predkladaného článku je teoreticky vymedziť liberalizáciu leteckej dopravy s poukázaním na aktuálne trendy a možný budúci vývoj. Po krátkom úvode nasleduje grafický model liberalizácie znázornený prostredníctvom kriviek ponuky a dopytu. Druhá časť charakterizuje tri spôsoby prístupu k liberalizácii – bilaterálny, multilaterálny a globálny. Časť 3 sa zaoberá formami spolupráce aerolínií ako súčasti liberalizácie, časť 4 sa venuje liberalizácii prepravných práv a časť 5 poukazuje na podľa nášho názoru najzásadnejší problém na ceste k úplnej liberalizácii sektora – obmedzenia vo vlastníctve aerolínií.
R49|The Economic Effects of Bus Transit in Small Cities|This research investigates how public transit affects economic outcomes in counties with small to medium-sized cities. Our objectives are to answer: Do counties with bus transit have lower growth in transfer payments such as food stamps, Temporary Aid to Needy Families (TANF), or higher income growth, employment growth, and population growth? Public transit is commonly viewed as a social service; this analysis explores the economic impact of this public investment. We find that relative to counties without bus transit, counties with bus systems have significantly lower unemployment rates, lower growth in family assistance, lower growth in food stamp payments, and higher population and employment growth. Yet the poverty rate is higher in counties with bus transit systems and the effect on income is ambiguous. The positive impact on job access which reduces payments for family assistance and food stamps is tempered by lack of discernable effects on income likely driven by supply side effects in the labor market.
R49|Evaluación Socioeconómica De La Medida Del Pico Y Placa Sobre El Mototaxismo En Cartagena|Uno de los niveles más altos del fenómeno de mototaxismo entre ciudades de la Costa Atlántica se encuentra en Cartagena; Gubernamentalmente se decidió aplicar la norma de Pico y Placa, tal que disminuyesen tanto la accidentalidad como flujos vehiculares entre otras razones, a la vez, mejorar la calidad económico-ambiental. La infracción de la norma por parte de los mototaxistas es evidente, en el presente artículo veremos cómo el 77% de los encuestados admitió haberlo hecho algunas veces o siempre. La razón que predominó sobre la práctica de la actividad del mototaxismo es la falta de empleo siendo la escolaridad es independiente a esta razón. La implementación de la norma y la irresponsabilidad adicionalmente de los infractores de la misma han afectado de modo negativo la cantidad diaria de carreras realizadas por los mototaxistas de la ciudad. Para asombro de muchos se hallaron indicios de población femenina ejerciendo la actividad y la concentración de los mototaxistas se encuentra en el rango de edad de 19 a 32 años. Por esto la generación de nuevas fuentes de empleo posibilitaría la esperada disminución de la práctica del mototaxismo. Este artículo nos ayudará a entender si ha cambiado y como lo ha hecho, esta actividad informal en la ciudad de Cartagena desde sus primeros años hasta después del año 2006 cuando se implemento la medida de pico y placa para motos.
R49|Análisis e incidencia del gasto en transporte público de los hogares en las localidades de Usme y Ciudad Bolívar|A continuación se presenta un documento de trabajoresultado de un proceso investigativo, cuyo principalobjetivo es demostrar la incidencia en el gasto de lasfamilias en relación con el transporte público en laslocalidades de Usme y Ciudad Bolívar de Bogotá desdeuna perspectiva analítica de manera descriptivamediante la utilización de un modelo econométricoque nos permita determinar y comprobar la incidenciadel gasto de las familias. Con el fin de lograr elcometido, se diseñó e implementó un instrumentode recolección de datos basado en 619 encuestasefectuadas directamente a los hogares que utilizan elservicio de transporte público colectivo en las localidadesde Usme y Ciudad Bolívar para desplazarsea sus lugares de trabajo o estudio o cumplir con actividadesde su núcleo familiar. El trabajo se sustenta,además, en la elaboración de una reseña históricadel uso del transporte en Bogotá, tomando como baseun modelo de consumo de las familias y las últimastendencias encontradas en el estudio de la economíadel transporte, haciendo énfasis en lo relacionadocon el transporte público colectivo de pasajeros. Portal motivo, se encuentran en el desarrollo del trabajolos diferentes aportes de especialistas en el temadel transporte, que ha tomado gran importancia enel desarrollo económico y la búsqueda de bienestarde las familias.
R49|La exclusión hidrológica|One settled down the validity and the trustworthiness of the instruments that measure variables of perceptions (indicated by utility expectations and risk around the extraction, storage, dosage, reusability or waste of water), valuing (indicated by the agreement or the discordance of principles of saving habits or water waste of the individual towards the culture) that determined direct, positively and significantly to the beliefs (indicated by the handling of information around the water distribution between the animal and vegetal species).
R49|The Automobile Buyer Behaviour: Emotional or Rational?|The automobile buyer’s behaviour is a specific one and the knowledge and understanding of the motivations is important for the automobile manufacturers and distributors. Automobile buyers are the beneficiaries of complex high technology products, which have a long-term use. The paper is focused on understanding the mechanisms that underlie the buying process, the buyers’ expectations and needs, as essential elements for producers and distributors. When these mechanisms are controlled, the company can create superior products in terms of technical quality and which comply with the pollution standards, and wanted by customers more than the ones of the existing competitors on the automobile market. The buying decision is a complex process which is the result of both the endogenous and exogenous factors to the purchaser. To meet his needs the Romanian car buyer chooses either to purchase a used car, most of the times an imported one, or to buy new brands, also mainly imported ones. The underlying motivation of either option is twofold in the sense that it is rational and subjective, the proportion being different from person to person In Romania, the automobile buyer’s behaviour witnessed significant changes,the latest preferences being directed towards the used cars more than towards the new ones. The consumption behaviour is also different from one development region to another, the main factor of influence being the buyers’ income level which is different from one region to another. The population with higher income has a higher tendency to purchase more expensive automobiles.
R49|Future Exigencies Regarding the Necessity of Reorganization of the “CN CFR” National Society|The expansion of the societies’ activity, internationally, suppose the development of the business complexity they produce and especially the expansion and the diversification of the instruments of the human resources management that they use to administrate cultural, economic, social, political and institutional variables which influence their activity in each country. All these evolutions determine the rethinking of the human resources strategic role at the organization level, people being considered the main competitive advantage they possess. A railway transportation system is seen, in most countries as an essential precondition for the overall economic development and for this especially, they allocate considerable amounts of resources for the construction and the improvement of the railway, but also to streamline and optimize the human resources system. In this article, I presented the objectives and the principles of reorganization of the “CN CFR SA” National Society taking into account the SWOT analysis of the activity of the railway infrastructure and exigencies at present and in perspective regarding the human resources management in the railway transportation in Romania.
R49|Das Städtesystem der Russischen Föderation aus Sicht der Neuen Ökonomischen Geographie = The Russian system of cities from the perspective of New Economic Geography|The rise in energy prices may result in long-lasting rise in costs of freight transports. Which effects do rising freight transport costs have for the development of urban systems? Such rise of transport costs in real terms has happened in Russia after price liberalisation in 1992. At the same time, the Russian official demographic statistics provides data that can be used to test hypotheses concerning the development of urban systems affected by rising transport costs. In the present study, these data are comprehensively evaluated. The theoretical background is provided by modelling of a linear shaped urban system in the framework of New Economic Geography. By means of this tool, analysis can be applied to spacious urban systems with large transport distances. For the first time, the underlying theoretical approach is explained in detail. The empirical results provide evidence for the outcomes of the theoretical model: In spacious countries or regions, respectively, whose urban systems are drawn-out on long lines, rising costs of freight transport are conducive to tendencies of concentration of population in large cities in the centre of the system, while peripheral regions are increasingly disconnected.
R49|The Economic Effects of Bus Transit in Small Cities|This analysis investigates the impact of public transit in counties with small to medium-sized cities. The objectives are to answer: Do counties with bus transit have lower growth in transfer payments such as food stamps, Temporary Aid to Needy Families (TANF), or higher income growth, employment growth, and population growth? Public transit is commonly viewed as a social service; this analysis explores the economic impact of this public investment. The authors find that relative to counties without bus transit, counties with bus systems have significantly lower unemployment rates, lower growth in family assistance, lower growth in food stamp payments, and higher population and employment growth. Yet, the positive impact on job access, which reduces payments for family assistance and food stamps is tempered by lack of discernable effects on income likely driven by supply-side effects in the labor market.
R49|Analysis on the spatial distribution of logistics industry in the developed East Coast Area in China|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Modeling spatial autocorrelation in spatial interaction data: empirical evidence from 2002 Germany journey-to-work flows|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Knowledge Flow in East Asia and Beyond|"East Asia is emerging as a hub of technological innovation. This paper investigates the extent to which East Asia has become a source of international knowledge diffusion and whether such di®usion is localized to the region. Using citations made by U.S. Patent and Trademark O±ce (USPTO) granted patents to other USPTO patents as an indicator of knowledge °ow and estimating a model of international knowledge di®usion, I ¯nd strong evidence corroborating the hypothesis of increas- ing regionalization of knowledge °ow in East Asia. Korea and Taiwan, the region's leading innovators, cite each other at least as frequently as they cite the US and Japan. Such knowledge °ow has substantially intensi¯ed since the mid 1990s. With the exception of Thailand, all of the East Asian economies that I examine, Hong Kong, Singapore, China, and Malaysia, cite Korea and Taiwan at least as frequently as they cite the US and Japan. The \G5"" group, which includes Britain, Canada, France, Germany and Italy, has been the least often cited source of knowledge for East Asia."
R49|Infrastructure Development of Railway in Cambodia: A Long Term Strategy|Infrastructure development means for the making of living environment, transport and communications, disaster prevention and national land conservation, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and energy production and supply. Transport infrastructure development in Cambodia involved with (1) road, (2) railway, (3) port, inland-water way and (4) aviation.All model of transport infrastructure have special different kinds of importance. Railway is different from other base important of railways are transport passengers and traffic freight especially transport for heavy goods in huge capacity and in long distance by safer and faster. Transport in Cambodia for traffic freight export import base from Thailand and other via Sisophon and Shihanoukvill port. Traffic is increasing rapidly during nowadays railway condition in adequate of demand required. This is why Railway is selected as the topic of this paper to prevent monopoly of road transport.This paper, does review about infrastructure development plan for Railway in Cambodia as a long term strategy by review and analysis forecast on the previous performance of Royal Railways of Cambodia (RRC) transport traffic involved with condition of infrastructure development of railway in Cambodia. And also review the plan of development RRC but just only detail a plan of rehabilitation that is immediately needed. Suggest some recommendation at the last part. As Cambodia is a member country of ASEAN and also Mekong sub-region. For make sure that transport networks work effectively with a progress of economic integration, we make clear what is important for infrastructure development of railway in Cambodia from the standpoint of the development plan of Mekong sub-region.This paper is organized by 4 sections. Section 1 review about Infrastructure Development of Railway in Cambodia (IDRC) Historical Background, Follow by Section 2 will review the Current Situation of IDRC and some analysis of transport performance from previous years, Then Section 3 review of the focusing on traffic transport of RRC in the future, Section 4 review Infrastructure Development of Railway in Cambodia Future plans in long term; at last conclusion and recommendation.In section 1 does review history background of RRC from the rail first begun. But why is needed to review? Because of history background is involved infrastructure development of RRC in present time. History background made big gaps constraint and obstacle for socioeconomic development and poverty reduction, also left Cambodia with tragedy and left developed behind. After that remain infrastructure development needs huge fund and long time for restoration, reconstruction, rehabilitation and development into new technology as most of world practice.
R49|The IDE geographical simulation model : predicting long-term effects of infrastructure development projects|It is important to be able to predict changes in the location of populations and industries in regions that are in the process of economic integration. The IDE Geographical Simulation Model (IDE-GSM) has been developed with two major objectives: (1) to determine the dynamics of locations of populations and industries in East Asia in the long-term, and (2) to analyze the impact of specific infrastructure projects on the regional economy at sub-national levels. The basic structure of the IDE-GSM is introduced in this article and accompanied with results of test analyses on the effects of the East West Economic Corridor on regions in Continental South East Asia. Results indicate that border costs appear to play a big role in the location choice of populations and industries, often a more important role than physical infrastructures themselves.
R49|Group K-Nearest Neighbors queries in spatial network databases|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Individual Contacts, Collective Patterns. Prato 1975-97, a story of interactions|This article presents an agent-based model of an Italian textile district where thousands of small firms specialise in particular phases of fabrics production. It is an empirical model that reconstructs the communications between firms when they arrange production chains. In their turn, production chains reflect into the pattern of traffic in the geographical areas where the district extends.
R49|Knowledge Flow in East Asia and Beyond|"East Asia is emerging as a hub of technological innovation. This paper investigates the extent to which East Asia has become a source of international knowledge diffusion and whether such diffusion is localized to the region. Using citations made by U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted patents to other USPTO patents as an indicator of knowledge flow and estimating a model of international knowledge diffusion, I find strong evidence corroborating the hypothesis of increasing regionalization of knowledge flow in East Asia. Korea and Taiwan, the region's leading innovators, cite each other at least as frequently as they cite the US and Japan. Such knowledge flow has substantially intensified since the mid 1990s. With the exception of Thailand, all of the East Asian economies that I examine, Hong Kong, Singapore, China, and Malaysia, cite Korea and Taiwan at least as frequently as they cite the US and Japan. The ""G5"" group, which includes Britain, Canada, France, Germany and Italy, has been the least often cited source of knowledge for East Asia."
R49|The relevance of the concepts of specific and generic goods for the understanding of freight transport demand|In this paper, we investigate the theoretical and empirical relevance of the distinction between generic goods and specific goods for the understanding of freight transport demand. Specific goods are Taylor-made for a single customer while generic goods are produced irrespective of the final customer who will buy them. Theoretically, the distinction lays on a different relationship with time, based for specific goods on a trade-off between transport duration and cost, and for generic goods on optimal stock. The distinction affects shippers? valuation of freight transport attributes such as value of time, value of transport time reliability and value of the risk of loss and damages. The theoretical analysis has not so far been able to establish conclusively how shippers? valuation of freight transport attributes is affected by the type of good produced. Hence, some empirical evidence derived from stated preference data collected among Italian shippers is used to shed some light on the topic.
R49|Crossing The Alps: Three Transport Policy Options|In recent years crossing the Alps has become a central issue in transport policy. The constant increase in global transport flow has contributed to bringing two distinct objectives to the centre of attention - making transalpine transportation of goods easier and reducing the negative impact of this on the alpine environment. The debates and disagreements on the subject are often bad-tempered, and are evidence of the lack of communication between the interested parties. This is also due to the existence of three distinct transport policy options - territiorial competition, sustainable development and de-growth. The different positions taken by the various parties are more understandable when one is aware of these options, and this awareness could assist the parties in making the necessary decisions, which all those involved recognise are important.
R49|Transporte público en Cartagena: ¿Qué factores determinan las preferencias de los usuarios?<BR>[Public transportation in Cartagena: what factors determine user preferences? (in Spanish)]|This document analizes the preferences of public transportation system users in Cartagena de Indias - Colombia. The research uses related variables on transportation modes chosen by people and some other characteristics of the people who make such decisions. The analysis allows us to understand the behavior of public urban transportation system users in the city of Cartagena, and shows us evidence about some probable reasons associated with new informal public transportation modes, which at this moment play an important role in the public transportation market in the city. The research uses binary choice probabilistic models (Probit) and primary information collected by a survey for system users.
R49|The Downside of Domestic Substitution of Oil with Biofuels: Will Brazil Catch the Dutch Disease?|In response to oil price rises and carbon emission concerns, policies promoting increased ethanol usage in gasoline blends are being implemented by many countries, including major energy users such as USA, EU and Japan. As a result, Brazil, as the largest ethanol producer and exporter in the world, can expect growing foreign demand for ethanol exports. Also, the introduction of flex-fuel vehicles in Brazil is causing domestic sales of ethanol to increase steadily. In this paper, we investigate the regional and industrial economic consequences of rapid growth in Brazilian ethanol consumption and exports. For this, we use a disaggregated multi-regional computable general equilibrium (CGE) model with energy industry detail. Our modelling emphasises a number of features of ethanol production in Brazil which we expect to be important in determining the adjustment of its regional economies to a substantial expansion in ethanol production. These include regional differences in ethanol and sugar production technologies, sugarcane harvesting methods and the elasticity of land supply to sugarcane production.
R49|Is the regulation of the transport sector always detrimental to consumers?|The aim of this paper is to qualify the claim that regulating a competitive transport sector is always detrimental to consumers. We show indeed that, although transport deregulation is beneficial to consumers as long as the location of economic activity is fixed, this is no longer true when, in the long run, firms and workers are freely mobile. The reason is that the static gains due to less monopoly power in the transport sector may well map into dynamic dead-weight losses because deregulation of the transport sector leads to more inefficient agglomeration. This latter change may, quite surprisingly, increase consumer prices in some regions, despite a more competitive transport sector. Transport deregulation is shown to map into aggregate consumer welfare losses and more inequality among consumers in the long run.
R49|The climate challenge and Europe’s ambitions|Since 1990, the European Union has taken the lead in international efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions and stabilise their atmospheric concentrations. This ambi-tion has been manifested with a number of significant political decisions taken since then, the latest of which came in the form of the conclusions of the European Council in March 2007. This paper considers some of the most relevant documents approved by the European Commission on this subject and reviews European performance on greenhouse gas reduction, starting from the most recent emission figures.
R49|Performance Evaluation of Real-time Scheduling Approaches in Vehicle-based Internal Transport Systems|This paper studies the performance of static and real-time scheduling approaches in vehicle-based internal transport (VBIT) systems, which can be found in manufacturing and warehouse facilities. We propose three heuristic approaches for static VBIT problems (insertion, combined and column generation), extend them to a dynamic, real-time setting and compare their performance over a rolling time horizon. This time horizon can be seen either as a fixed-time interval in which advance information about loads’ arrivals is available, or as a fixed number of loads which are known to become available in the near future. We also propose two dynamic assignment approaches: with and without look-ahead, respectively. Performance (primarily average load waiting time) of the above five dynamic scheduling approaches is compared with two nearest-vehicle-first rules (with and without look-ahead), which are the best vehicle dispatching rules known from literature and which are commonly used in practice. Experimental results show that, if sufficient prior information is available, our dynamic scheduling approaches consistently outperform vehicle dispatching rules. Results also reveal that guide-path layout, load arrival rate and variance, and amount of load pre-arrival information have strong impacts on the performance of vehicle control approaches. Column generation or the combined heuristics are recommended in small or medium-scale VBIT systems, whereas for large scale VBIT systems, both the combined heuristic and the dynamic assignment approach with look ahead perform best.
R49|Il turismo crocieristico: sfide ed opportunità di sviluppo dei territori costieri. Il caso caraibico delle Piccole Antille<BR>[Cruise Tourism: challenges and opportunities for coastal regional development. The Carribean case of the West Indies]|Cruise tourism is rapidly growing in the last ten years worldwide and not just in North America. From a niche market it is becoming an important way to diversify the tourist supply and a stimulus for the coastal regional develoment even if sustainability is challenging. Identifying an itinerary and route, is central both for tour operators and shipowners in order to define a cruise product, and for port authorities in major and marginal places. The Caribbean area has been a precurson of the fenomenom and in this working paper it is presented the case of the West Indies' area with a specific discussion about Barbados.
R49|“Evaluación económica sectorial de la inversión en la red viaria de gran capacidad: la evidencia de los efectos desbordamiento”|La red viaria de gran capacidad constituye un instrumento fundamental de vertebración territorial que genera importantes efectos económicos. Son escasos, sin embargo, los trabajos dedicados a su análisis, principalmente por la falta de series de este tipo de capital con cobertura temporal y geográfica suficiente. En este documento se ha utilizado una estimación de este componente del capital público productivo, realizada por las autoras para las regiones españolas, desde el año 1970 hasta el 1998, para evaluar el impacto económico sectorial de esta infraestructura. Los resultados muestran el positivo y significativo impacto de este equipamiento en el sector privado de la economía, siendo las actividades agrarias y las industriales las que se han beneficiado del desarrollo de esta infraestructura en España.
R49|Propuestas hacia el Progreso Económico en el Siglo XIX en Colombia: Impuesto directo, Aduanas, Vías de Comunicación y Federalismo|El presente documento examina las propuestas realizadas por los ideólogos del liberalismo radical sobre temas que pretendían promover el progreso económico de la Nación. La revisión de las propuestas respecto a la tributación, las Aduanas, las Vías de comunicación y el Federalismo como arreglo político con implicaciones económicas se hace a partir de una revisión de fuentes primarias a través de los debates en la prensa del Siglo XIX y de fuentes secundarias. En general, se muestra como las propuestas mencionadas coinciden en su capacidad para exaltar el liberalismo económico y crear un ambiente propicio para el desarrollo de las capacidades económicas y, a su vez, de la civilización neogranadina.************************************************************************************************************The present paper examines economic proposals and ideas of New Granada´s intellectuals with liberal orientation. Those proposals were intended to promote the economic progress of the nation. The paper will focus on economic programs presented in XIX century´s newspapers about the following subjects: taxation, customs, communications routs and federalism. The paper illustrates the strong link between economic ideas and policies with liberal ideals as the proper way to create a good environment for economic development and civilization.
R49|Aproximación Metodológica para el Cálculo de la Balanza de Servicios Externos del Valle del Cauca (Colombia) Subsector Transporte Aéreo|Esta investigación tiene como propósito presentar una caracterización sectorial en términos de la estructura administrativa y operativa de las cuentas externas y de servicios no factoriales que componen la Balanza de Servicios del Valle del Cauca (Colombia). Dada la dificultad de la información y siendo este un trabajo pionero en el área de medición de servicios externos regionales, se presenta una aproximación metodológica para el cálculo del subsector transporte aéreo.
R49|Seriously Ceres ?| Within maritime logistics the containerised trade market is growing rapidly with the uprising of the Far East. European container port competition among the ports in the Le Havre-Hamburg range is fierce as they are threatened by a shortage of terminal capacity. The port of Amsterdam identified this threat and realised a brand new container terminal, the Ceres Paragon Terminal, in 2002. Characterised by a revolutionary concept known as an indented berth, served simultaneously by nine ultra modern post- Panamax gantry cranes, productivity levels should raised to over 250 picks an hour. Although the odds seemed favourable for the new terminal, enthusiasm was replaced by vexation. Three years later the terminal has not yet served a single contract client since it became operable. And the future does not look bright. Their main Rotterdam based competitor, ECT, is planning a take-over that could make or break the future of the Ceres Paragon Terminal. The objective of this paper is to study if the failure of the container ambitions of Amsterdam can be traced back to main port choice criteria or port performance, identified in literature.
R49|The high-speed train and its spatial effects|This paper analyses the high-speed train from a spatial point of view. The basic characteristics of this transportation mode,the evolution of high-speed networks in several countries and the building of a trans-European high-speed railway network are studied.The paper analyses also the process of space-time convergence and its consequences on competitivity and cohesion;the tunel effect;the impact of the high speed-train on transportation demand;and the impacts on the city.
R49|Rural Roads and Bridges, 1994-2000: How Did the South Fare?| In 1991, the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) changed the federal-state transportation relationship by devolving decision making to the states. In turn, states were required to work with local officials on transportation improvements. ISTEA was authorized for 1992-1997, and the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century continued ISTEA policies through 2003. Changes in road and bridge conditions in the rural south are examined under these new transportation policies. Federal funding trends are detailed with state funding. Overall condition of roads and bridges eligible for federal funding improved, traffic increased on all roads, but condition disparities between local roads and federally funded roads grew.
R49|Transport Economics|This paper is concerned with the application of microeconomic theory to resource allocation in the transportation sector. The basic questions it addresses are how transportation should be priced and how capacity should be determined. Three models, the traditional highway pricing and investment model, the highway bottleneck model, and the traditional model of mass transit pricing and service, are employed to develop principles common to all transportation modes. This paper has been published as a chapter with the same title in Randolph W. Hall, ed., Handbook of Transportation Science, 2nd ed., Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002.
R49|Lojistik Sektorunun Ulkemizdeki Gelisimi ve Rekabet Vizyonu|Ulkemizde lojistik sektoru son yillarda gelisme gosteren genc bir sektordur. Turkiye, lokasyon olarak Orta Dogu, Turk Cumhuriyetleri ve Avrupa arasinda bir aktarma merkezi olusturmasindan kaynaklanan avantajli konumu ile bircok otorite tarafindan lojistik ussu olma iddiasi veya ideali ile tanimlanmaktadir. Lojistik firmalari arasindaki rekabet sadece yurt icinde degil yurt disindaki firmalar ile de olmaktadir. Ekonomik kosullarin degiskenligi ya da belirsizligi ile karakterize edilen donemler ve ozellikle krizler, sektordeki firmalari farkli yonlerden etkilemistir. Sektorun gelecegine iliskin ongoruler arasinda Lojistik hizmet saglayicilarinin da onumuzdeki donemleri tanitim ve halkla iliskiler faaliyetleri ile gecirecekleri, dis kaynak kullaniminin surecegi, yabanci sermaye girisleri, sektorden cekilmeler vb. onemli gelismelerin yasanabilecegi beklentisi bulunmaktadir. Bu makalede son yillarda Ulkemizde lojistik sektorunun yukselen basarilari, gelisme potansiyeli ve rekabet vizyonu, yonetici goruslerini de kapsayan bir cerceveden ele alinmaktadir.
R49|Hierarchal Object-Oriented Models for Management of Narrow Passageways|Narrow passageways are a significant source of traffic congestion and delay in transportation networks. With traffic volumes expected to increase significantly in the foreseeable future, the effective management of these passageways is needed to mitigate the undesirable impact of these bottlenecks on transportation system safety, performance and cost. In an effort to address the significant challenges associated with the analysis, design, and implementation of appropriate management operations for narrow passageways, an object-based model for the management of narrow passageways in the transportation network is developed. The object model is developed in two steps. The first step identifies high-level management functionality, objects, and associated data/information sources that are common to all narrow passageway applications. In the second step, functionality of the object model is customized to the specific needs of the narrow passageway application domain (e.g., waterways and work zones).
R49|Geopolitics vs. Globalization in the Balkans: The New Rivalries in the Energy and Transport Sectors|The research focuses on how present Balkan political elites declare that they would adhere to the values of integrating and globalizing Europe in their Balkan policy, while de facto employing the ‘arsenal’ of geopolitical egoistic planning. I also argue that narrow geopolitical planning in inter-Balkan relations, which is embedded in the geopolitical thinking of present Balkan political elites, obstructs the democratization and economic recovery of these societies. The aim of this research is not to argue that ‘geopolitical egoistic’ foreign policy is fundamentally irrational in an era of globalization. Instead the focus is on the particular historical, geographical and political context. Although it is a fact that even in the most Euro-committed countries, politicians are concerned both with absolute and relative gains, in situations when ‘the policies followed by one government are regarded by its partners as facilitating realization of their own objectives, as the result of a process of policy coordination’ , cooperation is usually achieved. The research focuses on how present Balkan political elites still prefer to think in the logic of relative gains, despite the cooperation-facilitating international regimes.
R49|Reverse Logistics Network Structures and Design|Logistics network design is commonly recognized as a strategic supply chain issue of prime importance. The location of production facilities, storage concepts, and transportation strategies are major determinants of supply chain performance. This chapter considers logistics network design for the particular case of closed-loop supply chains. We highlight key issues that companies are facing when deciding upon the logistics implementation of a product recovery initiative. In particular, we point out differences and analogies with logistics network design for traditional 'forward' supply chains. Moreover, we discuss the strategic fit between specific supply chain contexts and logistics network structures. Conclusions are supported by a quantitative analysis.
R49|How to Organise Return Handling|Already for a long time retailers take back products. In this paper we explore the factors contributing to the decision of combining vs. separating inbound and outbound flows during the return handling process. We do so through a comparative analysis of the operations in nine retailer warehouses, which can be divided in three groups: food retailers, department stores and mail order companies. We identify both aggravating factors and facilitating actions for return handling. Furthermore, we bring about recommendations for practice. At the end we put forward propositions that are useful in feeding studies on return handling efficiency. In particular, we conjecture over the impact that return volume and product diversity have on the decision for combining vs. separating the reverse and forward flows.
R49|One and Two Way Packaging in the Dairy Sector|Choosing packaging material for dairy products and soft drinks is an interesting issue at the moment. Discussions arise on the costs impacts and environmental impacts of both one way packaging and reusable packaging. The aim of this article is to develop an evaluation tool providing costs and environmental impacts of the PC-bottle and the GT-packs in the dairy sector, considering forward and return flows. The evaluation tool enables the user to analyse the costs and environmental impacts of a supply chain with and without return flows using scenario analyses with respect to the use of various carrier types and the number of return loops. It appears that costs differences between PC-bottles and GT-pack are quite small. The PC bottle has a better environmental profile than the GT-pack. Scenario analysis on the carriers results in the advice to use preferably roll-in-containers with direct delivery, secondly roll-in-containers with delivery via distribution centers, thirdly in case of direct delivery either cartons or crates and cartons in case of delivery via distribution centers.
R49|Design Principles for Closed Loop Supply Chains|In this paper we study design principles for closed loop supply chains. Closed loop supply chains aim at closing material flows thereby limiting emission and residual waste, but also providing customer service at low cost. We study 'traditional' and 'new' design principles known in the literature. It appears that setting up closed loop supply chains requires some additional design principles because of sustainability requirements. At the same time however, we see that traditional principles also apply. Subsequently we look at a business situation at Honeywell. Here, only a subset of the relevant design principles is applied. The apparent low status of reverse logistics may provide an explanation for this. To some extent, the same mistakes are made again as were 20 years ago in, for instance, inbound logistics. Thus, obvious improvements can be made by applying traditional principles. Also new principles, which require a life cycle driven approach, need to be applied. This can be supported by advanced management tools such as LCA and LCC.
R49|A Greedy Heuristic for a Three-Level Multi-Period Single-Sourcing Problem|In this paper we consider a model for integrating transportation and inventory decisions in a three-level logistics network consisting of plants, warehouses, and retailers (or customers). Our model includes production and throughout capacity constraints, and minimizes production, holding, and tansportation costs in a dynamic environment. We show that the problem can be reformulated as a certain type of assignment problem with convex objective function. Based on this observation, we propose a greedy heuristic for the problem, and illustrate its behaviour on a class of randomly generated problem instances. These experiments suggest that the heuristic may be asymptotically feasible and optimal with probability one in the number of customers.
R49|Integer Constraints for Train Series Connections|The scheduling of train services is subject to a number of constraints describing railway infrastructure, required train services and reasonable time-intervals for waiting and transits. Timetable planners at Dutch Railways are nowadays supported by a software tool, called CADANS, which produces a feasible timetable on an hourly basis. In this paper, connection requirements between train series are written in the format of the CADANS model. It turns out that this leads to nontrivial combinatorial scheduling issues.
R49|Effective Speed Enforcement and Photo Radar: Evidence from Australia|This paper briefly examines the effectiveness of photo radar, or the use of automatic camera-equipped traffic monitoring devices, in reducing road fatalities and collisions. Photo radar has become a controversial subject among the driving public, largely due to its tendency to produce substantially increased revenues for the implementing governments. From the road safety literature, there appears to be a causal link between driving at excessive speeds and traffic accidents (and fatalities). Photo radar is designed to reduce speeding by increasing the likelihood of catching those drivers over some predetermined speed threshold, but can be limited in certain circumstances by the inability to identify the driver. A simplified driver-choice model is provided to demonstrate the effects of photo radar on speeding when the driver can be identified (and demerit points applied) and when the vehicle owner is applied a monetary fine alone. Raw data from Victoria, Australia, suggest that photo radar has significantly reduced both fatalities and collisions after its introduction in 1990, and controlling for other factors, including proxies for weather conditions and drunken driving, we find that photo radar can indeed be an effective road safety device.
R49|Marginal External Costs of Peak and Non Peak Urban Transport in Belgium|This paper discusses intermediate results of an ongoing research project to estimate all external costs from all transport modes in Belgium. It gives estimates of the marginal external costs of air pollution from urban transport. The evaluation of the environmental impacts is based on the European ExternE accounting framework. This methodology uses the impact pathway analysis for the detailed bottom-up assessment of impacts from air pollutants. It integrates state of the art knowledge in the fields of emission modelling, dispersion modelling, dose-response functions and monetary valuation. This paper focuses on the impact of location (rural areas versus cities), regulation, traffic conditions and congestion on environmental externalities. These case studies for Belgium confirm earlier results of the ExternE project that external environmental costs of car transport are significant and that damage to public health is the dominant impact. In addition, it shows that externalities of urban peak traffic are 2 to 4 times higher than for normal urban driving conditions. Finally, it calculates which occupancy rates are required for urban public transport (trams and diesel buses) to have lower external costs compared to passenger cars.
R49|A belvízi áruszállítás bizonytalan trendjei<BR>[Uncertain trends of the inland freight transport]|The author analyses the expected future trends of inland waterways fright in this article, especially relating the river Danube. The survey done couldn't ease author's suspicion that configuration of the Danube for a bigger waterway doesn't justify but modest investments from economic point of view, that Hungarian port development also able to tolerate but modest investments and that the development of the fleet must also be proportional to above changes. The article dealing with three possible economic scenarios underlined 'selective development' as possible positive future, while counting with other international and political issues the preferred variant seemed to be 'it doesn't so urgent'. The article accentuates that the analysis presented is hypothetical and relates to the start of necessary studies rather then to final conclusions.
R49|De structurerende werking van ondergrondse logistieke systemen : een verkenning| With this article we discuss the issue of the spatial structuring impacts of underground logistical systems. Until now the research is focussed on technological, strategic, legal, conceptual and economic aspects of the construction of underground logistic systems. We argue that underground logistical systems may have a large impact on the spatial structure of urban areas in the long term. In this article we give some information of some recently started pilot projects on the construction of underground logistic systems. Next we give a brief state-of-art review of the research efforts in the Netherlands. We conclude by addressing the issue of the spatial structuring effects of underground logistical systems. Special attention is paid to possible spatial implications of the gradual evolution of such a system.
R49|Commercial Management and Financing of Roads|In developing and transition economies 60 to 80 % of all passenger and freight transport moves by road, and roads provide the main from of access to most rural communities. Yet most of the 11 million kilometers of roads in these countries are poorly managed and badly maintained.
R49|Developpement d'un systeme expert de detection automatique de la fraude a l'assurance automobile|Le but de cette etude etait de developper un outil d'aide a la decision permettant aux enqueteurs des compagnies d'assurance d'etre mieux equipes pour combattre la fraude a l'assurance
R49|Development of an Expert System for Automatic Detection of Automobile Insurance Fraud|The goal of this study is to develop a tool to aid insurance company adjusters in their decision making and to ensure that they are better equipped to fight fraud.
R49|Autovias y ferrocarriles: un modelo para evaluar efectos intermodales de la politica de infaestructuras|The supply of motorways reduces travel time costs by road, affecting thus the demand for road transport. Besides these intramodal effects, there exist intermodal effects too as far as motorways have impact on the demand of the competing modes. In this paper we establish and estimate a model that allows us to obtain useful results in order to evaluate motorways' impact on the demand for rail. Finally, on the basis of our empirical results, we predict some effects of the main investments in motorways foreseen in the Plan Director de Infraestructuras (1993-2007).
R49|Urban transportation|We use applied microeconomics to examine several salient problems of urban transportation: traffic congestion, air pollution, the costs of motor vehicle accidents and the future of public transportation. Throughout this chapter, we focus on analytic methods and findings that bear on current policy issues, and on the factual basis for policy analysis. We find that the most promising approaches in each case are narrowly targeted to solving market failures, such as the existence of externalities, and that these approaches are unlikely to alter the overall dominance of automobiles in urban passenger transportation.
R49|Transport and Communications Output and Productivity in Brazil and the USA, 1950-90|This paper analyses levels and growth of output and productivit in transport and communications in Brazil and the United States over the years 1950 to 1990. The analysis is similar to that of Mulder (1994b), which adopts a similar approach to compare the situation of Mexico and the United States for the same period.
R49|Bayesian Analysis of Road Accidents: Accounting for Deterministic Heterogeneity|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Etude Empirique du Choix de l'Heure de Depart au Travail|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|Bayesian Analysis of Road Accidents: Accounting for Deterministic Heterogeneity|No abstract is available for this item.
R49|The Case for Road Privatization: a Defense by Restitution|Many contributions explained in details the various benefits from private roads. Not only they stressed the possibility of such system, but also the functioning through different historical experiences. However, they put aside an important question: how should we proceed concretely in order to privatize the road network? Our contribution tries to answer this question. It explains the consequences of a public provision and its differences with a free market order. It defines the true meaning of the privatization process: a search for justice, and proposes a solution based on Rothbards theory of property rights. The paper concludes on some critics that we raised to alternative process of privatization.Le réseau routier constitue un bien privé qui peut faire lobjet dune offre de la part dentrepreneurs. Or aujourdhui, celui-ci est géré par le secteur public. Se pose le problème de sa désocialisation ou de sa transmission au secteur privé par privatisation. Nous démontrons que les procédés de privatisation couramment utilisés se focalisent seulement sur un critère de rentabilité et en cela se révèlent insuffisants. La méthode par restitution se présente quant à elle comme un procédé recherchant un principe de justice, conforme à léthique des droits de propriété. Nous présentons alors les modalités pratiques dune telle méthode appliquée au réseau routier.
