R52|Competition, Land Price, and City Size|Larger cities typically give rise to two effects working in opposite directions: tougher competition among firms and higher production costs. Using an urban model with substitutability of production factors and pro-competitive effects, we study how market outcome responds to city population size, land-use regulation and commuting costs. For industries with small input of land, larger cities host more firms which set lower prices whereas larger cities accommodate more firms which charge higher prices in industries with intermediate land share in production. Furthermore, for industries with high input share of land, larger cities allocate fewer firms with higher product prices. We show that softer land-use regulation and/or lower commuting costs reinforce pro-competitive effects making larger cities more attractive for residents via lower product prices and broader variety for a larger number of industries.
R52|Bailing out environmental liabilities: moral hazard and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon|This paper discusses the emergence of moral hazard behavior in the context of a change in the Brazilian law that governs land use - the Forest Code. The Forest Code revision included benefits which relieved environmental liabilities for a specific group of landowners. We explore the fact that the Forest Code establishes two distinct legal regimes for landowners according to their adherence to the previous law. Basically, those that were not abiding by the former law gained special conditions to regularize the environmental liabilities, whereas those that were in accordance with the law did not receive any benefits. We argue that this latter group engaged in deforestation activities in the hope of also receiving bail outs in the future. We investigate our hypothesis using data on yearly deforestation from 2009 to 2017 by rural private properties in the Brazilian Amazon. Using a difference-indifferences approach, we first show that the new Forest Code has had a significant impact on deforestation. We then extend the analysis in order to demonstrate that hat landholders behave as if the law were non-binding. Moreover, we document increases only in livestock, but not in crop area. Finally, we conduct a counter-factual analysis which reveals that the Forest Code revision led to an additional loss of 533 thousand hectares between 2012 and 2017, which represents a loss of US$ 1.3 billion, taking no more than carbon emissions into consideration.
R52|The economic effects of density: A synthesis|This paper synthesises the state of knowledge on the economic effects of density. We consider 347 estimates of density elasticities of a broad range of outcomes ranging from wages, innovation, rents, various amenities, the cost of providing public services, transport- and environment-related outcomes to health and wellbeing. More than 100 of these estimates have not been previously published and have been provided by authors on request or inferred from published results in auxiliary analyses. We contribute original estimates of density elasticities of 16 distinct outcome variables that belong to categories where the evidence base is thin, inconsistent or non-existent. Along with a critical discussion of the quality and the quantity of the evidence base we present a set of recommended elasticities. Applying them to a scenario that roughly corresponds to an average high-income city, we find that density seems to be a net-amenity that is associated with positive external welfare effects. Densification policies may be welfare enhancing, but the distributional effects may be regressive, especially if residents are immobile and housing supply is inelastic.
R52|The efficiency of land-use in a developing city: traditional vs modern tenure systems in Kampala, Uganda|Land rights and tenure systems are an important factor behind poor housing and inefficient land-use in developing country cities. In Kampala, Uganda, four systems of land tenure coexist, allowing a detailed study of the effects of these on household and firm location decisions. Spatially disaggregated data across the city suggest that the presence of a traditional land tenure system (called mailo) skews land-use towards informal housing and away from productive activities. Using a structural model of the city we show that this due to mailo having a positive value for occupants of informal housing, attributable to mailo-specific amenity benefits and/ or rent caps. We use the model to investigate the effect of converting all mailo land in the city to leasehold. Despite direct loss of amenity experienced by mailo residents, aggregate city income may rise substantially because of more efficient land-use. Manufacturing firms move into formerly mailo areas and form new clusters of activity. This increases urban wages, particularly among the low skilled, and raises aggregate urban real incomes by 2% in the absence of localisation economies and as much as 6.7% in the presence of such economies of scale.
R52|Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning|This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a “ticket” price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a “slope” price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighborhood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only.
R52|Property Tax Reform and Land Use: Evidence from Japan|It is often said that farmland conservation in urban areas (i.e., cities and inner suburbs) is not desirable because it hinders converting farmland into residential areas, thereby deterring urbanization. If the preferential treatment of property taxes on farmland is rectified, these problems can be solved. In this paper, we study two property tax preferential treatment reforms that took place in Japan during the 1990s. We examine the effects of these reforms by theoretical and empirical investigation. The econometric results are consistent with our theoretic modelâ€™s main predictions; the proportion of farmland in the major cities in the three metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Chubu, and Kansai) decreased following the reforms. However, since landlords did not replace all the farmland with housing lots, the problem of obstructed urbanization remains to be solved.
R52|Capitalization as a Two-Part Tariff: The Role of Zoning|"This paper shows that the capitalization of local amenities is effectively priced into land via a two-part pricing formula: a \ticket"" price paid regardless of the amount of housing service consumed and a \slope"" price paid per unit of services. We first show theoretically how tickets arise as an extensive margin price when there are binding constraints on the number of households admitted to a neighborhood. We use a large national dataset of housing transactions, property characteristics, and neighbor- hood attributes to measure the extent to which local amenities are capitalized in ticket prices vis-a-vis slopes. We find that in most U.S. cities, the majority of neighborhood variation in pricing occurs via tickets, although the importance of tickets rises sharply in the stringency of land development regulations, as predicted by theory. We discuss implications of two-part pricing for efficiency and equity in neighborhood sorting equilibria and for empirical estimates of willingness to pay for non-marketed amenities, which generally assume proportional pricing only."
R52|Land Reform and Productivity: A Quantitative Analysis with Micro Data|We assess the effects of a major land policy change on farm size and agricultural productivity, using a quantitative model and micro-level data. In particular, we study the 1988 land reform in the Philippines, which was an extensive land redistribution program that imposed a ceiling of 5 hectares on all land holdings while at the same time severely restricting the transferability of the redistributed farm lands. We combine two sources of micro data to study the size and productivity effects of the land reform: (a) Decennial Agricultural Census Data, which offer a complete enumeration of farms, outputs, and inputs at the farm level in two separate cross sections, before and after the reform; (b) Philippines Cash Cropping Project, a panel of farm survey data, which tracks a much more limited number of rural households before and after the reform but offers a wealth of information at the parcel and farm level. We decompose the change in aggregate agricultural productivity, before and after the reform, into: (a) a reallocation effect, whereby farming activity is shifted from large farms to small farms and (b) a within-farm effect. The panel of farm surveys allows us to track a particular farmer over time and therefore to observe the source of the within-farm effect following the reform, such as a change in the crop mix or input mix. By focusing on a given country and tracking farmers over time, we control for farmer ability and for location since land quality and climate are constant. We develop a quantitative model with a non-degenerate distribution of farm sizes that features an occupational-choice decision for the farmer. The farmer chooses between two technologies: a ``cash crop'' and a ``food crop'' technology. The cash crop technology requires larger plots to be profitable, while the food crop technology can be operated at any scale. A land reform reduces aggregate agricultural productivity not only by reallocating resources from large/high productivity farms to small/low productivity farms, but also by altering the technology choice of farmers away from the more productive technology. We calibrate the model to the agricultural sector of the Philippines before the reform. We discipline the parameters of the technology choice from the farm-survey data on farm-cropping patterns. We then impose the land reform policy limiting farm size to 5 hectares and we study the consequences of this policy for average farm size, aggregate agricultural productivity, and the distribution of farm-level productivities. Contrary to the many empirical studies of land reforms that find inconclusive evidence of the policy on productivity, our preliminary results indicate that the land reform had a substantial negative impact on farm size and agricultural productivity.
R52|Does Gentrification Displace Poor Children? New Evidence from New York City Medicaid Data|The pace of gentrification has accelerated in cities across the country since 2000, and many observers fear it is displacing low-income populations from their homes and communities. We offer new evidence about the consequences of gentrification on mobility, building and neighborhood conditions, using longitudinal New York City Medicaid records from January 2009 to December 2015 to track the movement of a cohort of low-income children over seven years, during a period of rapid gentrification in the city. We leverage building-level data to examine children in market rate housing separately from those in subsidized housing. We find no evidence that gentrification is associated with meaningful changes in mobility rates over the seven-year period. It is associated with slightly longer distance moves. As for changes in neighborhood conditions, we find that children who start out in a gentrifying area experience larger improvements in some aspects of their residential environment than their counterparts who start out in persistently low-socioeconomic status areas. This effect is driven by families who stay in neighborhoods as they gentrify; we observe few differences in the characteristics of destination neighborhoods among families who move, though we find modest evidence that children moving from gentrifying areas move to lower-quality buildings.
R52|Improving well-being through better housing policy in New Zealand|New Zealand’s housing supply has not kept pace with rising demand, including from net immigration. Affordability has worsened, particularly for low-income renters. Government action is underway to allow new housing through initiatives such as the Urban Growth Agenda, KiwiBuild and the Housing and Urban Development Authority, but further steps are needed to improve well-being. Clear overarching principles for sustainable urban development and rationalisation of strict regulatory containment policies would allow the planning system to better respond to demand for land. Incentives for local governments to accommodate growth could be increased by giving them access to additional revenue linked to local development. More user charging and targeted rates would also help to fund infrastructure required to service new housing. Government delivery of affordable housing through KiwiBuild should be re-focused towards enabling the supply of land to developers, supporting development of affordable rental housing and further expanding social housing in areas facing shortages.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (http://www.oecd.org/economy/new-zealand-economic-snapshot/).
R52|The Environmental and Welfare Implications of Parking Policies|Parking policies have significant environmental and economic implications, which have often been left unconsidered. This paper reviews the relevant literature to provide a deeper understanding of the main environmental and economic consequences of common parking policies, and suggest policy options to protect the environment and increase social welfare.
R52|Classifying small (TL3) regions based on metropolitan population, low density and remoteness|This paper provides a method to classify TL3regions across OECD countries based on their level of access to metropolitan areas. TL3 regions are classified as ‘metropolitan’ if more than half of their population lives in one or more functional urban area (FUA) of at least 250 thousand inhabitants and as ‘non-metropolitan’ otherwise. The method sub-classifies metropolitan regions into ‘large metro’ or ‘metro’ regions based on the population size of the FUAs located within those regions. Non-metropolitan TL3 regions are sub-classified into: with accessto a metro, with access to a small/medium city, or remote based on their level of access to a FUA with population above a predetermined threshold. The method relies on publicly available grid-level population data and localised information on driving conditions.
R52|Addressing urban sprawl from the complexity sciences|Urban sprawl is nowadays a pervasive topic that is subject of a contentious debate among planners and researchers, who still fail to reach consensual solutions. This paper reviews controversies of the sprawl debate and argues that they owe to a failure of the employed methods to appraise its complexity, especially the notion that urban form emerges from multiple overlapping interactions between households, firms and governmental bodies. To address such issues, this review focuses on recent approaches to study urban spatial dynamics. Firstly, spatial metrics from landscape ecology provide means of quantifying urban sprawl in terms of increasing fragmentation and diversity of land use patches. Secondly, cellular automata and agent-based models suggest that the prevalence of urban sprawl and fragmentation at the urban fringe emerge from negative spatial interaction between residential agents, which seem accentuated as the agent’s preferences become more heterogeneous. Then, the review turns to practical applications that employ such models to spatially inform urban planning and assess future scenarios. A concluding discussion summarizes potential contributions to the debate on urban sprawl as well as some epistemological implications.
R52|Could/should Jubilee debt cancellations be reintroduced today?|In this paper the authors recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. They note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But the authors argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees - to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and they discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so.
R52|Quantifying the costs of land use regulation: Evidence from New Zealand|Land use regulations vary in the restrictions and enforcement that applies across time and space. That variation makes it difficult to determine when land use regulations hinder the flexibility of housing supply using a single time series method, so a range of approaches and country case studies may be most appropriate to test impacts. We use four methods to test for impacts of land use regulation in New Zealand and extend existing efforts by utilising unit record data on house sales and construction type. We find: (i) house prices outstrip construction prices in many New Zealand cities; (ii) land with a house is valued 4 and 9 times higher than land with no house attached; (iii) density and house prices are only weakly correlated; (iv) prices of apartments and townhouses are much higher than their construction costs. All four results suggest land use regulations play a material role in constraining housing supply, driving up house prices. Local geography, such as steep terrain, might matter, but relative price differentials between land with a house and land without a house suggest only a minor role for geography.
R52|The Economic Impacts of Constraining Home Investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the 'Swiss Second Home Initiative', which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R52|Does Regulation Discourage Investors? Sales Price Effects of Rent Controls in Germany|We analyze the extent to which sales prices for residential housing react to rent-price regulation. To this end, we exploit changes in apartment prices across the regulation treatment threshold. We examine a quasi-natural design in the German federal state of Brandenburg using transaction price data provided by the committee of evaluation experts. Brandenburg introduced both a capping limit for existing rental contracts as well as a price ceiling for new contracts for municipalities with tight housing markets in 2014. Whether or not a municipality falls under this classification is based upon a municipality’s housing market characteristics, which are translated into a specific score. This allows us to employ a regression discontinuity design with a sharp cutoff point. We compare sales prices in municipalities that are located marginally above the assignment threshold with the prices in those slightly below. Our results suggest that the regulations reduced sales prices for affected apartments by 20–30 %.
R52|Efectos de las decisiones de inversión en la formalización de tierras de los hogares rurales colombianos|Este trabajo estima la efectividad de las inversiones permanentes en predios sobre la formalización de tierras de hogares rurales, en el contexto de la ley de reforma agraria colombiana. Utilizando un modelo de probabilidad lineal con efectos fijos de hogar, se encuentra que un aumento de 1% en estas inversiones aumenta en 0.22% la probabilidad de formalización, en tres microrregiones colombianas entre el 2010 y el 2016. Además, se propone una posible solución a sesgos por simultaneidad y selección entre la inversión y la formalización, con variables rezagadas e instrumentando con choques de precipitación. La investigación ofrece una explicación sobre la permanencia en la informalidad de los pequeños productores, a pesar de la creación de políticas que promueven la formalización.
R52|Feeding the farmer, or taking food away from the farmer? the expansion of the agricultural frontier in Colombia|This paper analyses the expansion of the agricultural frontier in Colombia using the theories of Marx and Ricardo to understand which of them is closer to the Colombian process. This essay begins with a theoretical framework that defines the theories of both authors. Then, the most important moments of the expansion of the agricultural frontier are presented: the colonization of Antioquia and the expansion of the agricultural frontier between 1936 and 1972. A justification and representation of these processes are built from historical works on the topic. Finally, a balance of the overall process and missing areas of investigation are presented.****** Este artículo analiza la expansión de la frontera agrícola en Colombia utilizando las teorías de Marx y Ricardo para comprender a cuál de ellas está más cerca del proceso colombiano. El ensayo comienza con un marco teórico que define los postulados de ambos autores. Luego, se presentan los momentos más importantes de la expansión de la frontera agrícola: la colonización antioqueña y la expansión de la frontera agrícola entre 1936 y 1972. Se construye una justificación y representación de estos procesos a partir de algunos trabajos históricos sobre el tema. Finalmente, se presenta un resumen del proceso general y las áreas potenciales de futuras investigaciones.
R52|Could/Should Jubilee Debt Cancellations be Reintroduced Today?|In this paper we recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. We note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But we argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees- to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and we discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so
R52|The economic impacts of constraining second home investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy investors in high-amenity places affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the ‘Swiss Second Home Initiative’, which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the ban substantially lowered (increased) the price growth of primary (second) homes and increased the unemployment growth rate in the affected areas. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated the positive amenity-preservation effect. Constraining second home investments in locations where primary and second homes are not close substitutes may reinforce wealth inequality.
R52|Utilities Governance, Incentives, and Performance: Evidence from the Water Sector in India|Network utilities across the world are subject to regulation and political scrutiny. In developing countries, managing the trade-offs between socioeconomic and environmental objectives in public water and energy utilities is particularly challenging. These industries share important underlying technical and economic features. Therefore, many economic, governance, and policy lessons are transferable across these sectors. In India, the water sector suffers from mounting financial losses, lack of access, and poor quality of service. There is a dearth of literature on the multi-faceted nature of utility performance related to water utilities. We examine the socioeconomic and environmental aspects of urban water supply in India. We use a stochastic frontier analysis approach and distance functions to analyse the performance of 304 urban water supply utilities in three Indian states during the period 2010-2015. The results suggest that incentive-based economic reform and regulation would help the utilities improve their performance. More specifically measures to improve cost recovery, billing efficiency and reduce losses would help the utilities to enhance service delivery, expand coverage and induce efficiency in the sector. The results also show the dependence of water utilities on groundwater sources which is unsustainable in the long run. We highlight the need for designing economic incentives to improve the performance of utilities and enable them to achieve social and sustainability objectives.
R52|Rural waste disposal issues within urban borders|The paper examines the waste management issues in the villages annexed to administrative-territorial units of the Romanian cities which have been frequently neglected by urban waste operators. The lack of waste collection services in such peri-urban communities favored the illegal waste disposal practices particularly prior to EU accession. The extension of waste collection services from main cities to such areas is compulsory in order to mitigate the environmental risks and the public health threats. The paper estimates the amounts of household waste susceptible to be uncontrolled disposed of by peri-urban villages in different geographical areas of North-East region with a particular focus on Neamt county. The paper points out that these rural settlements should receive the same attention concerning the municipal waste management services as the main urban areas. Traditional recovery of waste fractions at the household level (e.g., home composting) should be further promoted in such areas in order to avoid illegal dumping issue and to prevent the landfill of biodegradable waste as requested by EU regulations.
R52|Does issuing building permits reduce the cost of land? An estimation based on the demand for building land in France|[eng] While the aggregate value of constructed land rose from 45% to nearly 260% of gross domestic product in France between 1998 and 2006, stabilising after the crisis, regulatory constraints on construction are used to explain the rise in land prices, which are weighing on production costs for new housing units. Here we analyse to what extent the issuance of building permits reduces the price of land. We first propose a theoretical assignment model of heterogeneous households (in terms of preferences) to heterogeneous building plots (in terms of location) to study the effects of construction on the price of land. We then estimate the inverse demand for building land by instrumenting construction (quantity) by instrumental variables relating to the nature of the land, to its topography, to the agricultural opportunity cost and to the presence of industrial brownfields. A 1% increase in the number of permits issued resulted in a moderate decrease in land prices of 0.3%, on average. The effect, which differs according to the type of construction, increases with proximity to dense zones.
R52|Platform, Anonymity, and Illegal Actors: Evidence of Whac-A-Mole Enforcement from Airbnb| Airbnb, a prominent sharing-economy platform, offers dwellings for short-term rent. Despite restrictions, some sellers illegally offer their accommodations, taking advantage of a degree of anonymity proffered by the platform to hide from potential enforcement. We study the extent to which enforcement works in Manhattan, one of the most active short-term rental markets, by testing the effects of two recent enforcement events. We demonstrate that prices of entire-home listings in Manhattan increase and vacancies decrease following each enforcement event, suggesting that illegal entire-home listings are being withdrawn from the market, with these effects varying depending on neighborhood characteristics. We further demonstrate that a significant portion of withdrawn listings re-enter the market under the less-enforced listing category of private rooms.
R52|Land Cover Change and Conversions: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 Countries|Changes in the biophysical characteristics of natural habitats – that can be measured with data on land cover – are the best proxy to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity. This paper presents a suite of indicators that track land cover change over time in a globally consistent manner. The indicators, including an OECD Green Growth headline indicator, represent the Organisation's most recent effort to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity, using state-of-the-art data and techniques. Results are presented for OECD and G20 countries over 1992-2015 using global multi-period datasets.
R52|Utilities Governance, Incentives, and Performance: Evidence from the Water Sector in India|Network utilities across the world are subject to regulation and political scrutiny. In developing countries, managing the trade-offs between socioeconomic and environmental objectives in public water and energy utilities is particularly challenging. These industries share important underlying technical and economic features. Therefore, many economic, governance, and policy lessons are transferable across these sectors. In India, the water sector suffers from mounting financial losses, lack of access, and poor quality of service. There is a dearth of literature on the multi-faceted nature of utility performance related to water utilities. We examine the socioeconomic and environmental aspects of urban water supply in India. We use a stochastic frontier analysis approach and distance functions to analyse the performance of 304 urban water supply utilities in three Indian states during the period 2010-2015. The results suggest that incentive-based economic reform and regulation would help the utilities improve their performance. More specifically measures to improve cost recovery, billing efficiency and reduce losses would help the utilities to enhance service delivery, expand coverage and induce efficiency in the sector. The results also show the dependence of water utilities on groundwater sources which is unsustainable in the long run. We highlight the need for designing economic incentives to improve the performance of utilities and enable them to achieve social and sustainability objectives.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R52|Rural waste disposal issues within urban borders|The paper examines the waste management issues in the villages annexed to administrative-territorial units of the Romanian cities which have been frequently neglected by urban waste operators. The lack of waste collection services in such peri-urban communities favored the illegal waste disposal practices particularly prior to EU accession. The extension of waste collection services from main cities to such areas is compulsory in order to mitigate the environmental risks and the public health threats. The paper estimates the amounts of household waste susceptible to be uncontrolled disposed of by peri-urban villages in different geographical areas of NorthEast region with a particular focus on Neamt county. The paper points out that these rural settlements should receive the same attention concerning the municipal waste management services as the main urban areas. Traditional recovery of waste fractions at the household level (e.g., home composting) should be further promoted in such areas in order to avoid illegal dumping issue and to prevent the landfill of biodegradable waste as requested by EU regulations.
R52|The Effect of Zoning on Housing Prices|Zoning regulations provide benefits, but they also restrict housing supply and hence raise prices. This paper quantifies their importance by comparing prices to the marginal costs of supply at different points in time. For detached houses, marginal costs comprise the dwelling structure and the land that other home owners need to forego. Relative to our estimates of these costs, we find that, as of 2016, zoning raised detached house prices 73 per cent above marginal costs in Sydney, 69 per cent in Melbourne, 42 per cent in Brisbane and 54 per cent in Perth. Zoning has also raised the price of apartments well above the marginal cost of supply, especially in Sydney. We emphasise that this is not the amount that housing prices would fall in the absence of zoning. The effect of zoning has increased dramatically over the past two decades, likely due to existing restrictions binding more tightly as demand has risen.
R52|“Causes of Sprawl”: A (Further) Public Finance Extension|There are good reasons to expect that attributes of local public finance may impact urban land use and, specifically, sprawl. A detailed and novel investigation of U.S. metropolitan areas (Burchfield et al., 2006) provides substantial insights into the causes of sprawl, but it overlooks the main characteristics of local public finance (taxes and user charges). Using a subset of the data matched to city public finance data, a parallel analysis yielded evidence that greater reliance on local property taxes reduces sprawl and suggested that user charges (primarily for water, sewerage and solid waste services) could have a similar effect (McMillan, 2016). Expansion of the local public finance data set allowed extension of the data analyzed from 83 to 109 observations. The subsequent analysis was expected to enable a refinement of the estimates made in the 2016 paper. However, analysis of the extended data set as reported in this paper indicates more nuanced results. In particular, the impacts of property taxes on sprawl depend upon the population of the metropolitan area.
R52|Actual Condition Of Employee Number In Japanese Local Cities? Central Areas|In Japan, the decline of the central district is one of the most serious urban problems.It is caused by decreased commercial function and the urban sprawl with disorderly constructed large commercial complex and motorization. In this study, we investigate employee number trend in the central district and suburban area. This study targets 35 cities with population ranging from over 100,000 to less than 400,000 that do not fall in the three major metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka) and We confirm actual employee number in central district from 2009 to 2014 and population from 2010 to 2015 .This study analyses the relationship between population and employee number , especially paying attention to ? Wholesale and retail trade? , ? Finance and insurance? ,? Scientific research, professional and technical service ?, ? Accommodations eating and drinking service?, ? Education, learning support? and ? Medical, health care and welfare? which account for a higher proportion in all industry types in central district and have distinctive trends.As a result the following points were demonstrated. A: Although the employee number in almost cities is on a decreasing trend, the employee number of? Medical, health care and welfare? in central district clearly is clearly on an increasing trend in all cities.B: Although the employee number of almost industry types is clearly on a decreasing trend, the employee number of ? Scientific research, professional and technical service ? and ? Education, learning support? is a more slowly decreasing trend than others.
R52|Spatial assessment of construction waste generated by residential buildings in rural areas|The management of construction waste it is at an early stage in urban areas and lacking in rural areas where this fraction is frequently uncontrolled disposed on public lands. Despite the fact some items of construction waste are considered inert for the environment (soil, concrete) it also contains hazardous items (paint additives, cans, and containers) or recyclables (plastics, metals, wood). Potential recovery of this waste stream is high if it is properly managed. The paper estimates the potential amounts of waste resulted from residential constructions across rural municipalities of Neamț County between 2002 and 2010. These statistical values are calculated at commune level (rural territorial administrative unit) in order to outline the disparities between various geographical areas using thematic cartography. This approach is correlated with demographic features in order to reflect such spatial patterns. The map of population density within built-up areas reveals where the construction sector is emerging at the county scale. Field observations highlight the existence of illegal disposal practices of construction waste in the proximity of settlements or water bodies. This waste stream should receive proper attention in following years in order to achieve recycling and recovery targets imposed by EU regulations.
R52|A model for strategic planning of sustainable urban transport in Scandinavia: a case study of Uppsala|Growing populations and car traffic in cities pose challenges to city planners in the form of increased congestion on roads and demand for parking, crowding in public transport and more car traffic and may also affect safety and comfort in infrastructure for cycling. Current Scandinavian transport planning models do not handle these factors and solutions currently appear distant as good data is largely lacking. This paper reports tests with the HUT-model using simplified representations of these dimensions, intended for use in strategic transport planning with focus on cities applied to the city of Uppsala. The model also estimates costs for investment and operation of infrastructure, public transport and social costs for environmental effects and public funds. The tests suggest that these dimensions may have significant effects on transport demand and hence on transport planning. The results indicate that higher parking fees and more central location of new housing may be effective in reducing car traffic and increasing the mode shares of walking, cycling and public transport in Uppsala. Even stronger effects are reported for a package of instruments. Consequently, public costs for these policies are estimated to be about 25 percent lower than for the reference scenario. In contrast increases in supply, lower charges, or concentration of the capacity to bus trunk lines with increased speeds have smaller effects on mode shares. Increased supply and lower charges are costly to the public purse, whereas the trunk line policy has somewhat lower costs. The central conclusion is that results appear to be plausible and the model useful to planners.
R52|The Energy Costs of Historic Preservation|We explore the impact of historical preservation policies on domestic energy consumption. Using panel data for England from 2006 to 2013 and employing a fixed effects-strategy, we document that (i) rising national energy prices induce an increase in home energy efficiency installations and a corresponding reduction in energy consumption and (ii) this energy saving effect is significantly less pronounced in Conservation Areas and in places with high concentrations of Listed Buildings, where the adoption of energy efficiency installations is typically more costly and sometimes legally prevented altogether. Preservation policies increase private energy costs and the social cost of carbon per designated dwelling by around £8,000 and £2,550, respectively. These costs ought to be weighed against any benefits of preservation.
R52|Why Has Regional Income Convergence in the U.S. Declined?|The past thirty years have seen a dramatic decline in the rate of income convergence across states and in population flows to high-income places. These changes coincide with a disproportionate increase in housing prices in high-income places, a divergence in the skill-specific returns to moving to high-income places, and a redirection of low-skill migration away from high-income places. We develop a model in which rising housing prices in high-income areas deter low-skill migration and slow income convergence. Using a new panel measure of housing supply regulations, we demonstrate the importance of this channel in the data.
R52|Accessibility-oriented development|Local authorities worldwide have been pursuing transit-oriented development (TOD) strategies in order to increase transit ridership, curb traffic congestion, and rejuvenate urban neighborhoods. In many cities, however, development of planned sites around transit stations has been close to non-existent, due to, among other reasons, a lack of coordination between transit investments and land use at a broader spatial scale. Furthermore, while TOD considers access to transit, it often neglects the access to destinations that is provided by transit.
R52|Justice, Exclusion, and Equity: An Analysis of 48 U.S. Metropolitan Areas|Injustice in transportation services experienced by disadvantaged demographic groups account for much of these groupsâ€™ social exclusion. Unfortunately, there is little agreement in the field about what theoretical foundation should be the basis of measures of the justice of transportation services, limiting the ability of transportation professionals to remedy the issues. Accordingly, there is a need for an improved measure of the justice of the distribution of transportation services, which relates to the effectiveness of transportation services for all members of disadvantaged groups rather than for only segregated members of these disadvantaged groups. To this end potential measures of distributive justice, based on the accessibility to jobs provided by various modes, are evaluated in 48 of the top 50 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The purpose of the study is to inform recommendations for appropriate use of each measure.
R52|Multi-objective local environmental simulator (MOLES 1.0): Model specification, algorithm design and policy applications|This paper describes MOLES 1.0, an integrated land-use and transport model developed with Object-Oriented Programming principles in order to combine selected characteristics from Spatial Computable General Equilibrium and microsimulation models.
R52|Indicators on Terrestrial and Marine Protected Areas: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 countries|This paper details a methodology for calculating the extent of terrestrial and marine protected areas recorded in the World Database on Protected Areas by country, type and IUCN management categories. The method allows the data on protected areas to be summarised in a harmonised and more detailed way than is currently available, without requiring any additional reporting by countries. When used in combination with other information about protected areas, this new indicator can help better understand the extent and focus of countries’ conservation efforts.
R52|Spatial assessment of construction waste generated by residential buildings in rural areas|The management of construction waste it is at an early stage in urban areas and lacking in rural areas where this fraction is frequently uncontrolled disposed on public lands. Despite the fact some items of construction waste are considered inert for the environment (soil, concrete) it also contains hazardous items (paint additives, cans, and containers) or recyclables (plastics, metals, wood). Potential recovery of this waste stream is high if it is properly managed. The paper estimates the potential amounts of waste resulted from residential constructions across rural municipalities of Neamț County between 2002 and 2010. These statistical values are calculated at commune level (rural territorial administrative unit) in order to outline the disparities between various geographical areas using thematic cartography. This approach is correlated with demographic features in order to reflect such spatial patterns. The map of population density within built-up areas reveals where the construction sector is emerging at the county scale. Field observations highlight the existence of illegal disposal practices of construction waste in the proximity of settlements or water bodies. This waste stream should receive proper attention in following years in order to achieve recycling and recovery targets imposed by EU regulations.
R52|Numerical Computation of Flow Reattachment Lengthovera Backward-Facing Step at High Reynolds Number|Investigation of flow separation and reattachment length over a backward facing step are such as the subjects of fundamental fluid dynamics research. The purpose this study is measurement of reattachment length on backward facing step. For this purpose, unsteady flow over a step was simulated in a 2-D by using Computational Fluid Dynamic. Then, secondary flow was added to the 1/3 height of step. In order to, the effect of angles of 15°, 30°, 45° and 90°, expansion ratios of 1.5, 2, 3 and 4, pressure coefficient and Reynolds number with 75000 over backward facing stepwere investigated. To verify the numerical model, the velocity profile using different turbulence models was compared with experimental values in a sudden expansion. The results showed that RNG k-ε turbulent model was selected as the most suitable model to predict recirculation flow over backward facing step. The results of numerical analysis indicated that the reattachment length increase with increasing step angle, expansion ratio and Reynolds number. Also with increasing Reynolds number, when secondary flow is added to 1/3 height of step, the eddy diameters and the length of recirculation flow zone decrease. Moreover, increasing pressure coefficient led to increasing the reattachment length.
R52|The Effect of a Second Home Construction Ban on Real Estate Prices|In 2012, a drastic regulation prohibiting the construction of holiday and investment homes in touristic municipalities in Switzerland was surprisingly introduced. I investigate the causal effect of such a construction limitation on real estate prices. The regulation does not affect all municipalities, which provides a unique possibility to separate the municipalities into treatment and control groups. I apply the synthetic control method to estimate the causal effect of the regulation. Unlike the classic synthetic control method literature, I deal with multiple heterogeneous treatment units. This allows me to compute statistical significance precisely and construct confidence intervals. I demonstrate a salient drop in real estate prices of between - 10% and -18% three to five years after the intervention. These results are highly significant. However, no effect on prices in the first two years after the intervention is found. The decrease in prices is shown to be caused by indirect channels such as adverse effects on local economies and legal uncertainty.
R52|Accessibility dynamics and location premia: Do land values follow accessibility changes?|The structure of transportation networks and the patterns of accessibility they give rise to are an important determinant of land prices, and hence urban spatial structure. While there is ample evidence on the cross-sectional relationship between location and land value (usually measured from the value of improved property), there is much less evidence available on the changes in this relationship over time, especially where location is represented using a disaggregate measure of urban accessibility. This paper provides evidence of this dynamic relationship using data on home sales in the Minneapolis-St Paul, MN, USA metropolitan area, coupled with disaggregate measures of urban accessibility for multiple modes, for the period from 2000 to 2005. Our investigation tracks the effects of marginal changes in accessibility over time, as opposed to static, cross-sectional relationships, by using an approach in which the unit of observation is a â€˜representative houseâ€™ for each transportation analysis zone in the region. This approach allows us to control for changes in structural attributes of houses over time, while also isolating the effect of changes in accessibility levels. Results of this approach are compared with a cross-sectional model using the same variables for a single year to illustrate important differences. Empirical estimates indicate that while most of the models estimated using a cross-sectional specification yield positive and significant effects of accessibility on sale prices, these effects disappear when the models are transformed into first-difference form. We explain these findings in light of the state of maturity of urban transportation networks.
R52|A fixed effects logit model of rural land conversion and zoning|Abstract We examine the effect that public facilities moratorium and minimum lot size zoning have on the conversion of rural land to residential subdivisions in fast-growing exurban areas using a natural experiment approach. Zoning ordinances are the most common growth control policy at the local level and are hypothesized to be one of the most important factors in determining the likelihood of residential development. We investigate the role of minimum lot size zoning by taking advantage of plausibly exogenous changes in zoning policies that altered the developable status of some rural land parcels in an exurban county of Ohio. A discrete-choice econometric model of land use conversion is estimated with a parcel-level temporal dataset, using conditional maximum likelihood estimation to account for the panel structure of the data and fixed effects to control for unobserved heterogeneity. Empirical evidence indicates that minimum lot size zoning has a negative effect on the likelihood of rural land conversion and that this effect is large in magnitude. Specifically, we find that a parcel that is subject to a minimum lot size zoning is between 4.4 and 6.4% less likely to be converted to residential land use. In comparison, results from a pooled model, in which the unobserved heterogeneity is left uncontrolled, suggest that minimum lot size zoning has a relatively small negative effect on the conversion probability of undeveloped land parcels. Thus, estimates that do not control for unobserved heterogeneity are likely biased toward zero.
R52|The impact of highways on population redistribution: The role of land development restrictions|We study the role of land development restrictions for the effects of highway expansion on the spatial distribution of population. We demonstrate that these restrictions strongly interfered with the effects of highways in the Netherlands. Introducing an IV approach to address endogenous interaction variables, our findings show that new highways accelerated population growth in peripheral areas, but had no such effect in central cities and suburban municipalities. We find that due to development restrictions near larger cities, the highway expansion caused a ‘leapfrog’ pattern, in which suburban growth skipped development-restricted areas and expanded into farther located peripheral areas.
R52|How Valuable are National Parks? Evidence from a Proposed National Park Expansion in Alaska|We estimate the national average passive use value for Alaskan National Parks. Passive use refers to the value that individuals get from the existence of a public good without actually using it. We fi eld a questionnaire asking respondents, using the contingent valuation method, how much they would pay for a 5% expansion of Denali National Park. We fi nd that respondents are willing to pay $115 to $409 for this expansion, according our preferred speci cations. Respondents answers to questions about what motivated their support and questions about their connections to Alaska indicate that support for the expansion is driven by passive use values.
R52|Measuring the Stringency of Land Use Regulation: The Case of China's Building Height Limits|This paper develops a new approach for measuring the stringency of a major form of land use regulation, building height restrictions, and applies it to an extraordinary data set of land-lease transactions from China. Our theory shows that the elasticity of land price with respect to the floor area ratio (FAR), a building height indicator, is a measure of the regulation's stringency (the extent to which FAR is kept below the free-market level). Using a national sample, estimation allowing this elasticity to be city-specific shows variation in the stringency of FAR regulation across Chinese cities. Single-city estimation for Beijing shows that stringency varies with site characteristics.
R52|The effect of land consumption on municipal tax revenue: Evidence from Bavaria|This paper aims to quantify the municipal tax revenue effects of built-up area increases. The assumed existence of these effects is one of the key reasons for ongoing land consumption on the side of the municipalities. Some previous case studies however suggested that these effects might be not large enough especially in rural municipalities and would thus make land development not profitable. We estimate the effect of built-up industrial and commercial (BIC) area change on the business tax revenues in cross-sectional instrumental variable (IV) estimations. Based on detailed data for Bavaria, we find a significant and positive tax revenue effect of an increase in municipal BIC area. There exist strong differences in the size of this effect between urban and rural municipalities. The largest effects are generated by the BIC area in the large cities and become substantially smaller when these are dropped from the sample. Based on these findings, we reflect on the tradable planning permits (TPP) scheme recently discussed in the land use literature in the context of policies aiming to limit land consumption. Furthermore, we relate our estimates to the average municipal costs for land development and execute a number of robustness checks.
R52|Take Me to the Centre of Your Town! Using Micro-geographical Data to Identify Town Centres|We often talk about ‘Town Centres’ (TCs), but defining their location and extent is surprisingly difficult. Their boundaries are hard to pin down and intrinsically fuzzy. Nevertheless, policymakers often speak or act as if their definition was self-evident. The Dutch and later the British governments, for example, introduced very specific policies for them without ever clearly defining what or where they were. In this article, we propose a simple methodology to predict TC boundaries and extent. Using a range of micro-geographical data, we test our method for the whole of Great Britain in an attempt to capture all the dimensions of ‘town centredness’ in a 3D surface. We believe this is a contribution in its own right but is also an essential step if there is to be any rigorous analysis of TC or evaluation of policies directed at them. Our method should contribute to improve not just debates about cities, shopping hierarchies, and TCs but also to other more general debates where people and policy proceed ahead of any clear definition of what are the objects of interest.
R52|The Compact City in Empirical Research: A Quantitative Literature Review|The 'compact city' is one of the most prominent concepts to have emerged in the global urban policy debate, though it is difficult to ascertain to what extent its theorised positive outcomes can be substantiated by evidence. Our review of the theoretical literature identifies three main compact city characteristics that have effects on 15 categories of outcomes: economic density, morphological density and mixed land use. The scope of our quantitative evidence-review comprises all theoretically relevant combinations of characteristics and outcomes. We review 321 empirical analyses in 189 studies for which we encode the qualitative result along with a range of study characteristics. In line with theoretical expectations, 69% of the included analyses find normatively positive effects associated with compact urban form, although the mean finding is negative for almost half of the combinations of outcomes and characteristics.
R52|The energy costs of historic preservation|We explore the impact of historical preservation policies on domestic energy consumption. Using panel data for England from 2006 to 2013 and employing a fixed effects-strategy, we document that (i) rising national energy prices induce an increase in home energy efficiency installations and a corresponding reduction in energy consumption and (ii) this energy saving effect is significantly less pronounced in Conservation Areas and in places with high concentrations of Listed Buildings, where the adoption of energy efficiency installations is typically more costly and sometimes legally prevented altogether. Preservation policies increase private energy costs and the social cost of carbon per designated dwelling by around £8,000 and £2,550, respectively. These costs ought to be weighed against any benefits of preservation
R52|Forming State through Land Reform Policy: The Dynamics of Baldío Allocation in Peripheral Colombia|This paper analyses land policy when the state lacks the monopoly of legitimate violence (MLV) through a territory. I use historical data for Colombia to empirically assess the dynamics through which the central state allocates land in such a scenario. I argue that colonization processes directed towards peripheral areas with lack of the MLV induces the state to attempt building capacity using land policy. Public goods nevertheless do not follow. I use an instrumental variable strategy in order to examine these hypotheses. Results show that rural migration towards the peripheral areas accounts for 42.01% of the total number and 68.55% of the total hectares of public land allocations. Allocations however account for only the 7.89% of the number policemen and the 6% of the number of policemen per inhabitant in these regions. Moreover, both their total and per hectare effect on police presence is much higher in the integrated zones than in the peripheral ones.
R52|Capacidad del estado, democracia y política en la Segunda República (1931-1936) : el fracaso de la reforma agraria en España|El fracaso de los gobiernos republicanos para llevar a cabo una amplia reforma agraria redistributiva ha recibido diferentes explicaciones tales como la sistemática oposición de los terratenientes, la escasa voluntad política del gobierno de Azaña de 1931-33, o las restricciones presupuestarias. Sin embargo, la reforma agraria republicana se enfrentó a otros problemas de muy distinta naturaleza. Por una parte, el hecho de no haber participado en la Primera Guerra Mundial explica que, ni el estado se viera obligado a incrementar su capacidad de intervención en la economía, ni las élites terratenientes experimentaran una disminución de su poder económico como en el resto de los países participantes. Por otro, es el enorme desafío que supone para un estado modificar completamente la organización agrícola de una parte considerable del país, y la falta de tierras suficientes para redistribuir sin debilitar los derechos previos de otros cultivadores. Finalmente, el caso español pone de relieve la dificultad de acometer una reforma agraria en un sistema democrático.
R52|The nature and response to the 1930s agrarian crisis : Spain in a European perspective|The impact of the Great Depression was less in Spain than in most other Western European countries, but government response to the problems was also more limited because of weak state capacity. As economic depression coincided with major changes in political opportunities and constrains created by the Second Republic, there were demands for radical changes in farm policy. Inappropriate policies (land reform) and contradictory goals (higher farm wages and lower food prices) weakened the popular support for the Republic, and quickly divided the Spanish countryside.
R52|Analysis of the “Plan Fronteras” for Clean Cooking in Ecuador|The aim of this research is to analyze the introduction of the “Plan Fronteras” in Ecuador. The Plan Fronteras analyses the effects of introducing induction stoves in terms of electricity demand, energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, previous to the implementation of the National Efficient Cooking Program (NECP), which is the first program of widespread access to clean cooking alternatives, which aims to introduce 3 million of induction stoves in the country. The impact of the induction stoves on Ecuador electric network has been analyzed by measuring electric grid parameters, energy and power consumption. The results of the study show that the electric grid parameters are within the permitted levels of the regulation of the country. Further on, a coincidence factor of 0.16 for induction stoves utilization has been registered when it was found. An estimation of the electric demand has been identified when implementing the NECP with this value. The results of the study show that when analyzing the highlands and coastal regions at the same time, the peak demand in the country occurs at 19:00, whit a power requirement of 2860 MW. Finally, a study on energy demand and liquid petroleum gas savings after the implementation of the NECP has been accomplished. The study has been evaluated and compared with future business as usual scenarios and new policies from 2016 until 2032. The results of the comparison reveal a reduction of the energy demand of 20 million GJ in 2032, and a reduction of 40.8 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions, between 2016 and 2032.
R52|Are local governments maximizing land revenue? Evidence from China|This paper examines how political considerations affect local officials' revenue maximization behaviors in the context of urban land conveyance in China. Particularly, we analyze government intervention based on local officials' choice of two land auction types, namely, “English auction” and “two-stage auction”. The latter presumably serves as a tool of government intervention. We aim to address the research question: “Are local governments maximizing land revenue?” The major findings are threefold. First, for cities with higher housing prices, two-stage auctions are adopted more frequently than English auctions. In addition, land parcels in these “hot” cities adopt two-stage auctions more frequently during sensitive political events, suggesting that local officials respond positively to the real estate regulation policy from central government. Second, when city leaders are more incentivized to promote economic performance, they respond less positively to rises in housing prices. Third, such interventionist behavior results in a significantly depressed land price and housing price. Despite its intention of improving public welfare, this interventionism can susceptibly cause problems of misallocation and corruption.
R52|Distinctively Different: A New Approach to Valuing Architectural Amenities|We propose a method to estimate the capitalised value of the architectural design quality of an area. Our economic design premium is identified by spatially differentiating property prices and design quality within neighbourhoods and comparing the differences across neighbourhoods. We apply our method to 48 conservation area neighbourhoods in England in which we analyse around 7,900 property transactions and interview more than 500 residents. We find a capitalisation effect of about 6.6% (Â£16k) associated with a one standard deviation increase in our index of distinctive design. Our results suggest that this effect is at least partially driven by architectural externalities.
R52|Is the Rent Too High? Aggregate Implications of Local Land-Use Regulation|Highly productive U.S. cities are characterized by high housing prices, low housing stock growth, and restrictive land-use regulations (e.g., San Francisco). While new residents would benefit from housing stock growth in cities with highly productive firms, existing residents justify strict local land-use regulations on the grounds of congestion and other costs of further development. This paper assesses the welfare implications of these local regulations for income, congestion, and urban sprawl within a general-equilibrium model with endogenous regulation. In the model, households choose from locations that vary exogenously by productivity and endogenously according to local externalities of congestion and sharing. Existing residents address these externalities by voting for regulations that limit local housing density. In equilibrium, these regulations bind and house prices compensate for differences across locations. Relative to the planner's optimum, the decentralized model generates spatial misallocation whereby high-productivity locations are settled at too-low densities. The model admits a straightforward calibration based on observed population density, expenditure shares on consumption and local services, and local incomes. Welfare and output would be 1.4% and 2.1% higher, respectively, under the planner’s allocation. Abolishing zoning regulations entirely would increase GDP by 6%, but lower welfare by 5.9% because of greater congestion.
R52|Land-use regulations, property values, and rents: Decomposing the effects of the California Coastal Act|Land-use regulations can lower real estate prices by imposing costs on property owners, but may raise prices by restricting supply and generating amenities. We study the effects of the California Coastal Act, one of the nation’s most stringent land-use regulations, on the price and rental income of multifamily housing. The Coastal Act applies to a narrow section of the California coast, allowing us to compare properties just on either side of the jurisdictional boundary. The setting is advantageous for the study of land-use regulation: boundary location is plausibly exogenous, which we confirm with historical data on boundary placement, and orthogonal to other jurisdictional divisions. We decompose the effects of the regulation into (i) a neighbor effect, the value of restrictions on adjacent properties, (ii) a local effect, which reflects the net effect of own-lot restrictions and the neighbor effect, and (iii) an external effect, the value of amenities generated by restrictions on all properties within the regulated area. Our analysis of multifamily housing prices reveals local and external effects of approximately +6% and +13%, respectively. We use data on rental income to estimate a zero neighbor effect. Together with evidence on building ages and assessed building and land values, this suggests that property owners anticipate that the Coastal Act will provide protection from undesirable development on adjacent properties, even though material differences have not yet appeared.
R52|Fire and the Distribution and Uncertainty of Carbon Sequestered as Aboveground Tree Biomass in Yosemite and Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks|Fire is one of the principal agents changing forest carbon stocks and landscape level distributions of carbon, but few studies have addressed how accurate carbon accounting of fire-killed trees is or can be. We used a large number of forested plots (1646), detailed selection of species-specific and location-specific allometric equations, vegetation type maps with high levels of accuracy, and Monte Carlo simulation to model the amount and uncertainty of aboveground tree carbon present in tree species (hereafter, carbon) within Yosemite and Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks. We estimated aboveground carbon in trees within Yosemite National Park to be 25 Tg of carbon (C) (confidence interval (CI): 23–27 Tg C), and in Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Park to be 20 Tg C (CI: 18–21 Tg C). Low-severity and moderate-severity fire had little or no effect on the amount of carbon sequestered in trees at the landscape scale, and high-severity fire did not immediately consume much carbon. Although many of our data inputs were more accurate than those used in similar studies in other locations, the total uncertainty of carbon estimates was still greater than ±10%, mostly due to potential uncertainties in landscape-scale vegetation type mismatches and trees larger than the ranges of existing allometric equations. If carbon inventories are to be meaningfully used in policy, there is an urgent need for more accurate landscape classification methods, improvement in allometric equations for tree species, and better understanding of the uncertainties inherent in existing carbon accounting methods.
R52|Late Neolithic Agriculture in Temperate Europe—A Long-Term Experimental Approach|Long-term slash-and-burn experiments, when compared with intensive tillage without manuring, resulted in a huge data set relating to potential crop yields, depending on soil quality, crop type, and agricultural measures. Cultivation without manuring or fallow phases did not produce satisfying yields, and mono-season cropping on freshly cleared and burned plots resulted in rather high yields, comparable to those produced during modern industrial agriculture - at least ten-fold the ones estimated for the medieval period. Continuous cultivation on the same plot, using imported wood from adjacent areas as fuel, causes decreasing yields over several years. The high yield of the first harvest of a slash-and-burn agriculture is caused by nutrient input through the ash produced and mobilization from the organic matter of the topsoil, due to high soil temperatures during the burning process and higher topsoil temperatures due to the soil’s black surface. The harvested crops are pure, without contamination of any weeds. Considering the amount of work required to fight weeds without burning, the slash-and-burn technique yields much better results than any other tested agricultural approach. Therefore, in dense woodland, without optimal soils and climate, slash-and-burn agriculture seems to be the best, if not the only, feasible method to start agriculture, for example, during the Late Neolithic, when agriculture expanded from the loess belt into landscapes less suitable for agriculture. Extensive and cultivation with manuring is more practical in an already-open landscape and with a denser population, but its efficiency in terms of the ratio of the manpower input to food output, is worse. Slash-and-burn agriculture is not only a phenomenon of temperate European agriculture during the Neolithic, but played a major role in land-use in forested regions worldwide, creating anthromes on a huge spatial scale.
R52|Estate Crops More Attractive than Community Forests in West Kalimantan, Indonesia|Smallholder farmers and indigenous communities must cope with the opportunities and threats presented by rapidly spreading estate crops in the frontier of the agricultural market economy. Smallholder communities are subject to considerable speculation by outsiders, yet large-scale agriculture presents tradeoffs that they must navigate. We initiated a study in Sintang, West Kalimantan in 2012 and have returned annually for the last four years, building the baselines for a longer-term landscape approach to reconciling conservation and development tradeoffs in situ. Here, the stakeholders are heterogeneous, yet the land cover of the landscape is on a trajectory towards homogenous mono-cropping systems, primarily either palm oil or rubber. In one village on the frontier of the agricultural market economy, natural forests remain managed by the indigenous and local community but economics further intrude on forest use decisions. Conservation values are declining and the future of the forest is uncertain. As such, the community is ultimately attracted to more economically attractive uses of the land for local development oil palm or rubber mono-crop farms. We identify poverty as a threat to community-managed conservation success in the face of economic pressures to convert forest to intensive agriculture. We provide evidence that lucrative alternatives will challenge community-managed forests when prosperity seems achievable. To alleviate this trend, we identify formalized traditional management and landscape governance solutions to nurture a more sustainable landscape transition.
R52|Toward a Global Classification of Coastal Anthromes|Given incontrovertible evidence that humans are the most powerful agents of environmental change on the planet, research has begun to acknowledge and integrate human presence and activity into updated descriptions of the world’s biomes as “anthromes”. Thus far, a classification system for anthromes is limited to the terrestrial biosphere. Here, I present a case for the consideration and validity of coastal anthromes. Every coastal environment on Earth is subject to direct and indirect human modification and disturbance. Despite the legacy, ubiquity, and pervasiveness of human interactions with coastal ecosystems, coastal anthromes still lack formal definition. Following the original argument and framework for terrestrial anthromes, I outline a set of coastal anthrome classifications that dovetail with terrestrial and marine counterparts. Recognising coastal environments as complex and increasingly vulnerable anthropogenic systems is a fundamental step toward understanding their modern dynamics—and, by extension, realising opportunities for and limits to their resilience.
R52|Characterizing Islandscapes: Conceptual and Methodological Challenges Exemplified in the Mediterranean|Islands across the world have evolved at the interface between land and sea, thus comprising landscapes and seascapes. Many islands have also been influenced by anthropogenic factors, which have given rise to mosaics of anthromes ( sensu Ellis and Ramankutty). These elements of landscapes, seascapes, and cultural impacts in varied proportions, generate unique environments which merit a unique term: islandscapes. The use of the term islandscape is advocated as the only term which encompasses all of the constituent components of an island, in a holistic manner. The aim of the paper is to evaluate the applicability of existing landscape and seascape character assessment methodologies in an island context, and to propose a methodological framework for mapping the space which defines the term ‘islandscape’. The challenges and opportunities stemming from the use of the term are exemplified with reference to the Mediterranean islands.
R52|Anthropogenic Landscapes, Human Action and the Process of Co-Construction with other Species: Making Anthromes in the Anthropocene|We are in the Anthropocene. For millennia, human actions have been shaping the world to the degree that they are inscribed in the geological and ecological record. Recently, this has been occurring with increasing speed and influence. This means we need to be asking integrative and effective questions about the world and how we relate to and in it. Human niche construction has broad and deep effects not just on landscapes and environments, but on the myriad of other beings sharing space with us. Humans are self-appointed ecosystem managers and lead actors in seeking sustainability for planetary and local ecosystems. In order to accomplish this, we need to better understand how anthromes are shaped, inhabited and altered. To this end, we present two different examples of anthropogenic landscapes; one in Ethiopia and one in Bali, Indonesia. These are landscapes that are co-constructed by multiple species through complex webs of ecologies, economies and histories and represent the way that humans are drawn into relationships with non-humans; relationships which in turn alter landscapes.
R52|Resistance and Contingent Contestations to Large-Scale Land Concessions in Southern Laos and Northeastern Cambodia|Over the last decade, there have been considerable concerns raised regarding the social and environmental impacts of large-scale land concessions for plantation development in various parts of the world, especially in the tropics, including in Laos and Cambodia. However, there is still much to learn about the various connections and interactions associated with reactions to what are often referred to as “land grabs”, and the ways they are associated or not associated with broader social movements and networks opposed to land grabbing. There is also the need to develop language for discussing these circumstances, something I aim to contribute to in this article. Here, I present four different cases of types of resistance, or what I refer to as contingent contestations, to land concessions in southern Laos and northeastern Cambodia (two from each country), focusing on the perspectives and associated strategies of smallholder farmers, but without ignoring broader issues. I consider the roles of locals in these contestations, through emphasizing the importance of histories, identities/ethnicities, politics, and geography in determining the types of responses to these land deals that emerge, and the strategies that are adopted for contesting these developments.
R52|Identifying Employment Subcenters: The Method of Exponentially Declining Cutoffs|The standard method of identifying subcenters is due to Giuliano and Small. While simple, robust and easy to apply, because it uses absolute employment density and employment cutoffs, it identiﬁes “too few” subcenters at the metropolitan periphery. This paper presents a straight forward modiﬁcation to this method aimed at remedying this weakness. The modiﬁcation entails using cutoffs that decline exponentially with distance from the metropolitan center, thereby giving consideration to the employment density of a location relative to that of its locality. In urban studies, there is a long history of estimating employment density “gradients”, the exponential rate at which employment density declines with distance from the metropolitan center. These density gradients differ substantially across metropolitan areas and across time for a particular metropolitan area. Applying our method to Los Angeles, Calgary and Paris, we have found that using cutoffs that decline exponentially at one-half the estimated density gradients achieves an appealing balance between subcenters identiﬁed close to the metropolitan center and those identiﬁed at the metropolitan periphery. Many other methods of subcenter identiﬁcation have been proposed that use sophisticated econometric procedures. Our method should appeal to practitioners who are looking for a simple method to apply.
R52|Multi-Criteria Assessment of Land Cover Dynamic Changes in Halgurd Sakran National Park (HSNP), Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Using Remote Sensing and GIS|Halgurd Sakran National Park (HSNP) is Iraq’s first designated national park, located in the Kurdistan Region, which has suffered multiple armed conflicts over the past decades. This study assesses how vegetation dynamics have affected the landscape structure and composition of the core zone of the park over the last 31 years. Spatio-temporal changes in land cover were mapped for three points in time using remote sensing, geographic information systems (GIS), and landscape metrics. Land cover changes were mapped using random forest classifications of satellite images from Landsat 5 TM, Landsat 7 ETM+, and Landsat 8 LDCM acquired in 1984, 1998, and 2015. Five landscape pattern metrics were analysed at class and landscape levels in order to quantify landscape patterns arising from land use and land cover (LULC) change in HSNP using FRAGSTATS 4.2. These landscape pattern metrics were patch metrics, area metrics, shape metrics interspersion/juxtaposition and contagion metrics and diversity metrics. Significant changes in cultivated areas after 1991 were observed, which indicate the role of anthropogenic activities in land cover change. Areas of bare surface and forest lands declined and became more fragmented in 1984 and 1998 while, at the same time, cultivated areas increased, with a continuing fragmentation of pasture land. Internal migration of people was one of the major drivers of LULC change. The results reveal that significant LULC changes in terms of composition and spatial structure over the 31-year period have occurred in the designated protected area. Landscape metrics were able to assess the trend of spatial patchiness over the studied period. A discussion of the significance of changes in land use systems for understanding the causes and consequences of change is provided.
R52|Characterizing Spatial Neighborhoods of Refugia Following Large Fires in Northern New Mexico USA|The spatial patterns resulting from large fires include refugial habitats that support surviving legacies and promote ecosystem recovery. To better understand the diverse ecological functions of refugia on burn mosaics, we used remotely sensed data to quantify neighborhood patterns of areas relatively unchanged following the 2011 Las Conchas fire. Spatial patterns of refugia measured within 10-ha moving windows varied across a gradient from areas of high density, clustered in space, to sparsely populated neighborhoods that occurred in the background matrix. The scaling of these patterns was related to the underlying structure of topography measured by slope, aspect and potential soil wetness, and spatially varying climate. Using a nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis of species cover data collected post-Las Conchas, we found that trees and forest associates were present across the refugial gradient, but communities also exhibited a range of species compositions and potential functions. Spatial patterns of refugia quantified for three previous burns (La Mesa 1977, Dome 1996, Cerro Grande 2000) were dynamic between fire events, but most refugia persisted through at least two fires. Efforts to maintain burn heterogeneity and its ecological functions can begin with identifying where refugia are likely to occur, using terrain-based microclimate models, burn severity models and available field data.
R52|Conservation Benefits of Tropical Multifunctional Land-Uses in and Around a Forest Protected Area of Bangladesh|Competing interests in land for agriculture and commodity production in tropical human-dominated landscapes make forests and biodiversity conservation particularly challenging. Establishment of protected areas in this regard is not functioning as expected due to exclusive ecological focus and poor recognition of local people’s traditional forest use and dependence. In recent years, multifunctional land-use systems such as agroforestry have widely been promoted as an efficient land-use in such circumstances, although their conservation effectiveness remains poorly investigated. We undertake a rapid biodiversity survey to understand the conservation value of four contrasting forms of local land-use, namely: betel leaf ( Piper betle ) agroforestry; lemon ( Citrus limon ) agroforestry; pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) agroforestry; and, shifting cultivation–fallow managed largely by the indigenous communities in and around a highly diverse forest protected area of Bangladesh. We measure the alpha and beta diversity of plants, birds, and mammals in these multifunctional land-uses, as well as in the old-growth secondary forest in the area. Our study finds local land-use critical in conserving biodiversity in the area, with comparable biodiversity benefits as those of the old-growth secondary forest. In Bangladesh, where population pressure and rural people’s dependence on forests are common, multifunctional land-uses in areas of high conservation priority could potentially be used to bridge the gap between conservation and commodity production, ensuring that the ecological integrity of such landscapes will be altered as little as possible.
R52|Understanding Land Use and Land Cover Dynamics from 1976 to 2014 in Yellow River Delta|Long-term intensive land use/cover changes (LUCCs) of the Yellow River Delta (YRD) have been happening since the 1960s. The land use patterns of the LUCCs are crucial for bio-diversity conservation and/or sustainable development. This study quantified patterns of the LUCCs, explored the systematic transitions, and identified wetland change trajectory for the period 1976–2014 in the YRD. Landsat imageries of 1976, 1984, 1995, 2006, and 2014 were used to derive nine land use classes. Post classification change detection analysis based on enhanced transition matrix was applied to identify land use dynamics and trajectory of wetland change. The five cartographic outputs for changes in land use underlined major decreases in natural wetland areas and increases in artificial wetland and non-wetland, especially aquafarms, salt pans and construction lands. The systematic transitions in the YRD were wetland degradation, wetland artificialization, and urbanization. Wetland change trajectory results demonstrated that the main wetland changes were wetland degradation and wetland artificialization. Coastline change is the subordinate reason for natural wetland degradation in comparison with human activities. The results of this study allowed for an improvement in the understanding of the LUCC processes and enabled researchers and planners to focus on the most important signals of systematic landscape transitions while also allowing for a better understanding of the proximate causes of changes.
R52|Can Community Forests Be Compatible With Biodiversity Conservation in Indonesia?|Forest lands in Indonesia are classified as state lands and subject to management under agreements allocated by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. There has been a long-standing tension between the ministry and local communities who argue that they have traditionally managed large areas of forest and should be allowed to continue to do so. A series of recent legal and administrative decisions are now paving the way for the allocation of forests to local communities. There is a hypothesis that the communities will protect the forests against industrial conversion and that they will also conserve biodiversity. This hypothesis needs to be closely examined. Conservation of biodiversity and management for local benefits are two different and potentially conflicting objectives. This paper reviews examples of forests managed by local communities in Indonesia and concludes that there is very limited information available on the conservation of natural biodiversity in these forests. I conclude that more information is needed on the status of biodiversity in community managed forests. When forests are allocated for local management, special measures need to be in place to ensure that biodiversity values are monitored and maintained.
R52|Hydrological Response to ~30 years of Agricultural Surface Water Management|Amongst human practices, agricultural surface-water management systems represent some of the largest integrated engineering works that shaped floodplains during history, directly or indirectly affecting the landscape. As a result of changes in agricultural practices and land use, many drainage networks have changed producing a greater exposure to flooding with a broad range of impacts on society, also because of climate inputs coupling with the human drivers. This research focuses on three main questions: which kind of land use changes related to the agricultural practices have been observed in the most recent years (~30 years)? How does the influence on the watershed response to land use and land cover changes depend on the rainfall event characteristics and soil conditions, and what is their related significance? The investigation presented in this work includes modelling the water infiltration due to the soil properties and analysing the distributed water storage offered by the agricultural drainage system in a study area in Veneto (north-eastern Italy). The results show that economic changes control the development of agro-industrial landscapes, with effects on the hydrological response. Key elements that can enhance or reduce differences are the antecedent soil conditions and the climate characteristics. Criticalities should be expected for intense and irregular rainfall events, and for events that recurrently happen. Agricultural areas might be perceived to be of low priority when it comes to public funding of flood protection, compared to the priority given to urban ones. These outcomes highlight the importance of understanding how agricultural practices can be the driver of or can be used to avoid, or at least mitigate, flooding. The proposed methods can be valuable tools in evaluating the costs and benefits of the management of water in agriculture to inform better policy decision-making.
R52|Analysis of Vegetation Phytosociological Characteristics and Soil Physico-Chemical Conditions in Harishin Rangelands of Eastern Ethiopia|The objective of this study is to analyse the phytodiversity, distribution, herb biomass and physico-chemical conditions of the vegetation system in the context of communal continuous open grazing and enclosed grazing management practices in the Harishin rangelands of Eastern Ethiopia. A total of 58 herbaceous species and 11 woody species were recorded in the study area. Analysis of Importance Value Index for two management practices was represented by different combinations of species with varied dominance. The herbs’ diversity–dominance curve revealed a lognormal distribution in both managements practices. The overview of distribution patterns for most of the species layer showed contiguous growth and a clumped distribution pattern. Species diversity, richness, herb biomass, basal cover and soil physico-chemical attributes showed a distinct separation in relation to grazing management practices. Based on the findings, one can conclude that the establishment of enclosures has a positive impact in restoring rangeland vegetation diversity, distribution, in increasing herb productivity and in boosting soil fertility.
R52|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Land in 2016|The editors of Land would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
R52|Will Biodiversity Be Conserved in Locally-Managed Forests?|Recent decades have seen a rapid movement towards decentralising forest rights and tenure to local communities and indigenous groups in both developing and developed nations. Attribution of local and community rights to forests appears to be gathering increasing momentum in many tropical developing countries. Greater local control of forest resources is a response to the failure of government agencies to exercise adequate stewardship over forests and to ensure that the values of all stakeholders are adequately protected. We reviewed evidence of the impact of decentralised forest management on the biodiversity values of forests and conclude that special measures are needed to protect these values. There are trade-offs between shorter-term local needs for forest lands and products and longer-term global needs for biodiversity and other environmental values. We present evidence of local forest management leading to declining forest integrity with negative impacts on both local forest users and the global environment. We advocate greater attention to measures to ensure protection of biodiversity in locally-managed forests.
R52|The Politics of Land Use in the Korup National Park|Recently, the call to combine land change science (LCS) and political ecology (PE) in the study of human-environment interactions has been widely discussed by scientists from both subfields of geography. In this paper, we use a hybrid ecology framework to examine the effects of conservation policies on the environment and the livelihood of the people of the Korup National Park (KNP). Using techniques in both PE and LCS, our results show that conservation policies, politics, and population are the primary drivers of environmental change in the KNP. We conclude by arguing that a deeper understanding can be garnered by combining LCS and PE approaches to analyze and contribute to the people and parks debate.
R52|Habitat Loss on Rondon’s Marmoset Potential Distribution|The Amazon basin is one of the most biologically diverse places on earth. However, agricultural expansion and infrastructure development have led to widespread deforestation that threatens the survival of many taxa. Conservation strategies to contest these threats include protected areas and environmental legislation. Nevertheless, the basic biology of many taxa is largely unknown, which poses an immense challenge when devising effective strategies to safeguard such species in the long-term. This is particularly true for primates. Monkeys from the genus Mico are poorly studied with half of the currently known species being described after 1976, and their distribution and threats remain poorly understood. Using the model Maxent, we re-evaluated the distribution range for Rondon’s marmoset, one of the most threatened species in this genus. Our results estimated a distribution that is 15,500 km 2 smaller than previously described for this species (68,649 km 2 ). Furthermore, much of its modeled distribution (71%) lies outside of protected areas. Agriculture expansion and infrastructure development have converted/destroyed 20,532 km 2 of forest within its range (38%) mainly in areas without protection. Another 10,316 km 2 of forest is projected to be cleared by 2040 under current deforestation patterns. The expected cumulative loss of over 50% of its range size in the coming 15 years raise awareness about the threaten category of this species. In the absence of new protected areas, it remains to be seen whether Rondon’s marmoset can be effectively conserved in remaining fragments of forest in farmlands.
R52|Urban Growth Dynamics in Perth, Western Australia: Using Applied Remote Sensing for Sustainable Future Planning|Earth observation data can provide valuable assessments for monitoring the spatial extent of (un)sustainable urban growth of the world’s cities to better inform planning policy in reducing associated economic, social and environmental costs. Western Australia has witnessed rapid economic expansion since the turn of the century founded upon extensive natural resource extraction. Thus, Perth, the state capital of Western Australia, has encountered significant population and urban growth in response to the booming state economy. However, the recent economic slowdown resulted in the largest decrease in natural resource values that Western Australia has ever experienced. Here, we present multi-temporal urban expansion statistics from 1990 to 2015 for Perth, derived from Landsat imagery. Current urban estimates used for future development plans and progress monitoring of infill and density targets are based upon aggregated census data and metrics unrepresentative of actual land cover change, underestimating overall urban area. Earth observation provides a temporally consistent methodology, identifying areal urban area at higher spatial and temporal resolution than current estimates. Our results indicate that the spatial extent of the Perth Metropolitan Region has increased 45% between 1990 and 2015, over 320 km 2 . We highlight the applicability of earth observation data in accurately quantifying urban area for sustainable targeted planning practices.
R52|Do Community-Managed Forests Work? A Biodiversity Perspective|Community-managed reserves (CMRs) comprise the fastest-growing category of protected areas throughout the tropics. CMRs represent a compromise between advocates of nature conservation and advocates of human development. We ask whether CMRs succeed in achieving the goals of either. A fixed reserve area can produce only a finite resource supply, whereas human populations exploiting them tend to expand rapidly while adopting high-impact technologies to satisfy rising aspirations. Intentions behind the establishment of CMRs may be admirable, but represent an ideal rarely achieved. People tied to the natural forest subsist on income levels that are among the lowest in the Amazon. Limits of sustainable harvesting are often low and rarely known prior to reserve creation or respected thereafter, and resource exhaustion predictably follows. Unintended consequences typically emerge, such as overhunting of the seed dispersers, pollinators, and other animals that provide services essential to perpetuating the forest. CMRs are a low priority for governments, so mostly operate without enforcement, a laxity that encourages illegal forest conversion. Finally, the pull of markets can alter the “business plan” of a reserve overnight, as inhabitants switch to new activities. The reality is that we live in a hyperdynamic world of accelerating change in which past assumptions must continually be re-evaluated.
R52|Forest Cover Changes in Lao Tropical Forests: Physical and Socio-Economic Factors are the Most Important Drivers|Lao People’s Democratic Republic (PDR) has been experiencing significant forest depletion since the 1980s, but there is little evidence to demonstrate the major causes and underlying drivers for the forest cover changes. In this study, we investigated the relationship between forest cover decrease and increase in the south of Lao PDR between 2006 and 2012 and selected physical and socio-economic factors. We used a map of forest cover changes derived from analysis of Landsat ETM+ imagery in 2006 and 2012, together with socio-economic and physical environmental data from the national authorities. The study area has experienced noticeable forest cover changes: both forest decreases and increases were unevenly distributed throughout the region. Logistic regression models were used to test relationships between forest cover decrease or increase and selected physical and socio-economic factors. Forest clearance was associated strongly with elevation, distance to main roads and shifting cultivation practices. Meanwhile, forest cover increase was more likely to correlate with rubber plantations. Native forest and shifting cultivation lands were vulnerable to being converted into rubber plantations. This research provides much-needed information on which to base forestry policy and decision making to minimize and prevent current deforestation, as well as manage potential risks in the future.
R52|Race, Ethnicity, and Discriminatory Zoning|Zoning policies can have marked impacts on the spatial distribution of people and land use, yet there is little systematic evidence on their origin. Investigating the causes of these regulations is complicated by the fact that land use and zoning have been co-evolving for nearly a century. We employ a novel approach to overcome this challenge, studying the factors underpinning the introduction of comprehensive zoning in Chicago. We find evidence consistent with a precursor to exclusionary zoning as well as support for the hypothesis that industrial use zoning was disproportionately allocated to neighborhoods populated by ethnic and racial minorities.
R52|Property Taxation, Zoning, and Efficiency in a Dynamic Tiebout Model|This paper presents a dynamic Tiebout model and uses it to revisit a classic argument in public finance. The argument, due to Hamilton (1975), is that a system of governments financing services with property taxes will produce an efficient allocation of housing and services if governments can implement zoning ordinances. In the model, when governments choose zoning along with taxes and services, there does not exist an equilibrium that is both efficient and locally stable. Moreover, there exists an equilibrium in which governments over-zone and households over-consume housing. These findings challenge the Benefit View of the property tax.
R52|From Today's City to Tomorrow's City: An Empirical Investigation of Urban Land Assembly|Because cities are constrained by the boundaries of land ownership, fundamental urban modifications require land delineation changes. We evaluate whether there is enough land assembly--the joining together of two or more parcels of land--to put land to its highest value use. We hypothesize that in the absence of market frictions such as holdouts, the price of land sold for assembly should not exceed the price of land sold for other uses. Empirically, we find that to-be-assembled land in Los Angeles trades at a 15 to 40 percent premium and conclude that significant frictions prevent assembly.
R52|Climate change interactions with agriculture, forestry sequestration, and food security| We evaluate the impacts of using carbon taxes and forest carbon sequestration to achieve 50% emission reductions. We consider four cases – carbon tax-only, combination of a carbon tax and equivalent sequestration subsidy, and the inclusion of crop yield shocks due to climate change in both policies (with 50% emissions reduction). We developed a new version of a computable general equilibrium model to do the analysis. We find that the tax/subsidy case causes substantial increases in food prices because of land competition between forest sequestration and crop production. When the climate induced yield shocks are added, the food price increases are huge – so large that it is clear this approach could not be adopted in the real world. We also compare a case with no mitigation and crop yield shocks appropriate for that case. The results suggest economic well-being falls more in that case than with 50% emission reductions.
R52|Implementación de un método para alcanzar un paisaje resiliente mediante la ubicación apropiada de edificaciones rurales| [ES] Planificar idóneamente la ubicación edificaciones rurales es un proceso complejo que requiere armonización con el entorno. Este trabajo describe una metodología de análisis de decisión espacial multi-criterio mediante SIG. Se evalúa la idoneidad del área de estudio para albergar construcciones turísticas armonizadas en su entorno rural. Para establecer ponderaciones de criterios se emplea información de trabajos científicos, políticas regionales, directrices de la Unión Europea y opiniones de expertos. Los resultados muestran que el área más apropiada no responde a un única solución, y explican la fortaleza que supone la flexibilidad de ponderaciones en la toma de decisiones. [EN] Suitable location planning of rural buildings is a complex process to be in harmony with landscapes. This paper presents a multi-criteria spatial decision analysis approach using GIS techniques. The research aim is to evaluate the study area suitability to sustainably site tourism rural commercial buildings with landscapes. The criteria weights were decided by the authors with relevant literatures, regional polices and European Union (EU) directives and experts’ discussion. The results reveal the most suitable areas for siting them, not to find a single suitable solution. They explain the weighting flexibility strengths of the application in the decision making process.
R52|After 200 years, why is Indonesia’s cadastral system still incomplete?|This paper discusses Indonesia’s experience with establishing a uniform cadastral system in rural areas since the idea was first mooted in the early 19th century. Until 1961, a formal cadastre that identified, measured, registered and certified land titles existed only in urban areas. A cadastre for rural land did not start until after the 1960 Agrarian Law. Until then, the village-based land tax registers acted as a substitute cadastral register in areas subject to land tax. In the 19th century, this system was imperfect and calls to resolve issues of inequity in tax assessment led to improvements, especially since 1907. A proper rural cadastre was not introduced during the colonial era, because of the high cost involved, and because its certification of individual land rights would have clashed with customary regulations, including notions of communal land tenure. The introduction of a rural cadastre after 1960 was piecemeal, and the use of property tax registration as a substitute cadastre has continued. By 1992 cadastre registrations covered just 20% of land plots, mostly in urban areas. A World Bank-sponsored project helped to increased coverage since 1994 to 32% in 2013. Greater coverage was delayed by the rapid increase in newly opened up agricultural areas, the cost of land title certificates, the difficulties of reconciling individual land ownership with customary regulations, and also the continued use of property tax registers as a substitute cadastre.
R52|Social Determinants Of Voluntary Carbon Information Disclosure In The Real Estate Sector Of Malaysia| The knowledge is power is a quote effective in the public space, where the level of information and awareness people have determines the level of power they exercise. The aim of this study is to investigate the influence social factors has on corporate voluntary carbon disclosure in the property sector of a developing country. The data was collected from 2013 annual reports of 126 listed companies, comprising sixteen (16) property investment companies, seventy six (76) property companies and thirty four (34) construction companies in Malaysia. The analysis was conducted with Partial Least Square-Structural Equation Modeling, with the bootstrap used for significance testing. The result shows that social factor has a significant influence in determining voluntary carbon disclosure. It was observed in the result that company visibility has a greater influence in motiving disclosure. The implication of the outcome is that, improvement in the level of knowledge and awareness of the public, on the need for corporate participation in climate change mitigation and carbon reduction. The more awareness, the more demand by stakeholders on companies; the more companies will be motivated to disclose carbon information in their annual report.
R52|The Net Benefit of Demolishing Dilapidated Housing: The Case of Detroit|We conduct an analysis of the costs and benefits of public investment in demolishing dilapidated residential housing in Detroit. While we estimate a positive net impact of teardowns on nearby property values, we also calculate a low marginal impact on local property tax collections. Under existing housing market conditions in Detroit, demolition costs exceed the present value of additional property tax revenues resulting from demolitions over 50 years. Using efficiency as the criteria for justifying spending public funds on demolition, average property values would have to increase by a factor of five to justify the demolition program.
R52|The Preservation of Historic Districts - Is it Worth it?|I investigate the welfare effect of conservation areas that preserve historic districts by regulating development. Such regulation may improve quality of life but does so by reducing housing productivity - the efficiency with which inputs (land and non-land) are converted into housing services. Using a unique panel dataset for English cities and an instrumental variable approach, I find that cities with more conservation areas have higher house prices for given land values and building costs (lower housing productivity) and higher house prices for given wages (higher quality of life). The overall welfare impact is found to be negative.
R52|The Housing Market Impacts of Constraining Second Home Investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy second home investors in high-amenity places – tourist areas and superstar cities – affects local residents. We exploit a quasi-natural experiment: the ‘Swiss Second Home Initiative’ (SHI), which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations. Consistent with our model, we find that the SHI lowered transaction prices of primary homes in affected areas by around 12% but did not adversely affect prices of second homes. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated positive amenity-preservation effects. Constraining second home investments may reinforce rather than reduce wealth inequality.
R52|Collective Property Leads to Household Investments: Lessons From Land Titling in Afro-Colombian Communities|In the developing world, collective land titling has become an important tool for recognizing the historical presence of ethnic communities and safeguarding their rights to occupy and manage their territories. However, little is known about the average impact of these titling processes on the well-being of these communities. In this paper we attempt to estimate the impact of collective land titling in territories inhabited by Afro-descendent communities in Colombia. We compare rural districts in titled areas with rural districts in untitled areas that are similar in all the relevant observable characteristics. We find that the collective titling process in the Chocó region has caused an increase in average household per capita income, a decrease in extreme poverty, larger investments in housing, higher attendance rates among children in primary education, and a decrease in housing overcrowding. Our results suggest that collective land titling creates a more secure natural resource base and a longer time horizon for households in collective territories, which leads to investment in their private physical and human capital.
R52|Tendencias y factores socioeconómicos y espaciales asociados a la adjudicación de baldíos en Colombia, 1961-2010|Este documento aborda la relación entre variables socioeconómicas tales como cambio demográfico, frontera agropecuaria, acceso a mercados y tendencias históricas de acceso a la tierra como factores puramente sociales y políticos tales como la presencia de colonato en 1960 y de conflictos agrarios antes de 1950 con la de adjudicación de baldíos en Colombia, desde la expedición de la Ley 135 de 1961 hasta 2010. Para esto, se describe la legislación de adjudicación de baldíos y sus tendencias tanto históricas como regionales y se analiza empíricamente el efecto tanto de las variables socioeconómicas como de las puramente sociales y políticas mencionadas sobre sobre la adjudicación de baldíos en número y en área. Se concluye que la adjudicación de baldíos ha respondido a ambos grupos de variables.
R52|La Propiedad Colectiva Mejora las Inversiones de los Hogares: Lecciones de la Titulación de Tierras a las Comunidades Afrocolombianas|La titulación colectiva de la tierra n el mundo en desarrollo se ha convertido en una importante herramienta para reconocer la presencia histórica de las comunidades étnicas y salvaguardar sus derechos a ocupar y administrar sus territorios. Sin embargo, poco se conoce sobre el impacto promedio de estos procesos de titulación sobre el bienestar de estas comunidades. En este trabajo se intenta estimar el impacto de la titulación colectiva de la tierra en los territorios habitados por comunidades afro descendientes en Colombia. Mediante una estimación del Análisis de Covarianza (ANCOVA), comparamos veredas (distritos sub-municipales rurales) que tienen áreas con titulación colectiva de tierras frente a veredas que no tienen áreas tituladas colectivamente y que son similares en todas las características observables. Encontramos que el proceso de titulación colectiva en el departamento del Chocó ha causado un aumento en el promedio del ingreso per cápita de la familia, mayores inversiones en vivienda, mayores tasas de asistencia para los niños en educación primaria, y una disminución en el hacinamiento en el hogar. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la titulación colectiva crea una base de recursos naturales más segura y un mayor horizonte de tiempo para las familias en los territorios colectivos, que conduce a la inversión privada en su capital físico y humano.
R52|El Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial (POT) de Cali, una aproximación|En este documento se describe, analiza y evalúa la política pública de desarrollo urbanístico del Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial en la ciudad de Cali (POT, 2000). La incidencia de dicha política pública dentro de la transformación física de la urbe se puede evidenciar a través de un indicador tan elemental como es el precio del suelo urbano -en relación con el mercado de los precios de la tierra urbana, debido a que este factor señalizador de mercado determina las reglas del juego en una sociedad-. Es decir, se tiene una herramienta metodológica en términos de evaluación de estas políticas públicas específicas.
R52|Modelo de consumo de vivienda óptimo: estimaciones para Bogotá|Este artículo presenta una breve revisión del sector de la vivienda en Bogotá, destacando que la política se ha enfocado primordialmente en el impulso a la demanda mediante el otorgamiento de subsidios y acceso al crédito hipotecario. La evolución reciente del mercado sugiere que la política efectuada no garantiza un consumo de vivienda óptimo. En este sentido, se propone un modelo teórico de valores óptimos de demanda, así como la estimación empírica de dichos valores a partir de datos de la Encuesta de Capacidad de Pago realizada en Bogotá en el año 2005. Los resultados muestran brechas importantes entre estratos y sugieren que los niveles de financiación necesarios para una política de demanda pueden resultar excesivamente altos. Se justifica así la pertinencia de una política que no sea enfocada necesariamente a la compra de vivienda, sino que se oriente al uso eficiente de la oferta actual.
R52|Die Mietpreisbremse wirkt bisher nicht|On June 1, 2016, the much-discussed rental brake will have been in force for exactly one year. Since then, the rental brake has been implemented in 308 German cities. Prior fears that it would hamper urgently needed construction activity have not materialized, neither have hopes that the new regulations would allow low earners an improved access to the housing market. However, a purely descriptive analysis of the available data is not sufficient to properly assess the impact of rent regulations. Therefore, the present study examines how rents would have changed if no regulations had been in place and to what extent investors would have seen their expected earnings affected by the regulations. Housing rents and prices were analyzed by concentrating at the postal code districts, where the rental brake had been introduced, and the adjacent postal code districts, where the market remains unregulated. The findings of this differencein- differences approach suggest that the rental brake has not slowed the increase in rents. On the contrary, in the short term, it actually led to greater rent hikes in the regulated markets. Even investors seem to be of the opinion that the regulations will have no substantial effect in the future: the causal effects of the rental brake on the development of housing prices—as a reflection of future rental income—are relatively small. In order to provide a sustainable solution to the housing shortage, priority should be given to measures that stimulate an expansion of construction activity and make the housing supply more flexible. From a social policy point of view, a temporary rental brake can still be justified. It must, however, be structured in such a way that it does not restrict incentives for housing construction in the future. Am 1. Juni 2016 ist die viel diskutierte Mietpreisbremse ein Jahr in Kraft. Seither wurde sie in 308 Städten eingeführt. Die im Vorfeld geäußerten Befürchtungen, die dringend benötigte Bautätigkeit würde damit massiv ausgebremst, haben sich ebenso wenig bewahrheitet wie die Hoffnungen, die Neuregelung könne den Zugang von GeringverdienerInnen zum Wohnungsmarkt spürbar verbessern. Um die Wirkung der Mietregulierung zu beurteilen, reicht der alleinige Blick auf einzelne statistische Reihen allerdings nicht aus. Die vorliegende Studie untersucht deshalb, wie sich die Mieten verändert hätten, wenn keine Regulierung vorgenommen worden wäre und in welchem Umfang die Investoren ihre Ertragserwartungen durch die Regulierung beeinträchtigt sehen. Dazu werden Mieten und Wohnungspreise in benachbarten Postleitzahlbezirken analysiert, die sich darin unterscheiden, dass in einem Bezirk die Mietpreisbremse eingeführt wurde, während in dem anderen Bezirk der Markt unreguliert blieb. Die Ergebnisse dieses sogenannten Difference-in-Differences-Ansatzes legen nahe, dass die Mietpreisbremse den Anstieg der Mietpreise nicht entschleunigen konnte. Im Gegenteil: Sie hat kurzfristig sogar zu einem stärkeren Mietpreisanstieg in regulierten Märkten geführt. Auch scheinen Investoren der Auffassung zu sein, dass die Regulierung auch in Zukunft keine substanzielle Wirkung entfaltet: Die kausalen Effekte der Mietpreisbremse auf die Entwicklung der Wohnungspreise – als Reflektion zukünftiger Erträge aus der Vermietung – sind relativ gering. Um das Problem der Wohnungsknappheit nachhaltig zu lösen, sollten Maßnahmen im Vordergrund stehen, die eine Ausweitung der Bautätigkeit und eine Flexibilisierung des Wohnungsangebots ermöglichen. Aus sozialpolitischen Gesichtspunkten kann eine Mietpreisbremse temporär dennoch gerechtfertigt sein. Allerdings muss sie so gestaltet werden, dass sie die Anreize für den Wohnungsbau nicht beschneidet.
R52|Verstöße gegen die Mietpreisbremse werden kaum sanktioniert: Sechs Fragen an Claus Michelsen|No abstract is available for this item.
R52|Foreign direct investment, fiscal decentralization and land conflicts in China|Land disputes have been an important risk to social stability in China since the turn of the century. This paper uses provincial data on illegal land uses during the period 1999–2010 as a proxy for the intensity of land conflicts to investigate the effects of foreign direct investment (FDI) and fiscal decentralization on jurisdictional land conflicts. The results show that the FDI growth rate has a positive and significant impact on the growth rate of illegal land use when there is a high degree of fiscal decentralization. We thus provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that regional competition for FDI, as shaped by fiscal decentralization, tends to raise conflicts over land in China.
R52|Evaluating the risk of Chinese housing markets: What we know and what we need to know|Real estate is an important driver of the Chinese economy, which itself is vital for global growth. However, data limitations make it challenging to evaluate competing claims about the state of Chinese housing markets. This paper brings new data and analysis to the study of supply and demand conditions in nearly three dozen major cities. We first document the most accurate measures of land values, construction costs, and overall house prices. We then create and investigate a number of supply and demand metrics to see if price growth reasonably can be interpreted as reflecting local market fundamentals. Key results include the following:(1)Real house price growth has been high, averaging 10% per annum since 2006. However, there is substantial heterogeneity across markets, ranging from 2.8% (Jinan) to 19.8% (Beijing). House price growth is driven by rising land values, not by construction costs. Real land values have risen by 14.4% per annum on average. In Beijing, the increase has been by a remarkable 27.5% per year (or by 1036%) since 2004.(2)There is variation about the strong positive trend in house price and land value growth. Land values fell by nearly one-third at the beginning of the global financial crisis, but more than fully recovered amidst the 2009–2010 Chinese stimulus. More recent growth has been much more modest, with some markets beginning to decline. Quantities of land sales by local governments to private residential developers have dropped sharply since 2013. The most recent data show transactions volumes down by half or more. This should lead to a reduced supply of new housing units in coming years.(3)Market-level analysis of short- and longer-run changes in supply–demand balances finds important variation across markets. In the major East region markets of Beijing, Hangzhou, Shanghai and Shenzhen which have experienced very high rates of real price growth, we estimate that the growth in households demanding housing units has outpaced new construction since the turn of the century. However, there are thirteen large markets, primarily in the interior of the country, in which new housing production has outpaced household growth by at least 30% and another eleven in which it did so by at least 10%. Regression results show that a one standard deviation increase in local market housing inventory is associated with a 0.45 standard deviation lower rate of real house price growth the following year.(4)There are no official data on residential vacancy rates in China, but some researchers have reported very high figures (17%+). We develop a new series at the provincial level which yields a much lower vacancy rate on average, but it has been rising—from 5.2% in 2009 to 7.8% in 2014.(5)The risk of housing even in markets such as Beijing which show no evidence of oversupply, is best evidenced by price-to-rent ratios. They are well above 50 in the capital city. Poterba's (1984) user cost model suggests these levels can be justified only if owners have sufficiently high expectations of future capital gains. Even a modest one percentage point drop in expected appreciation (or increase in interest rates) would result in a drop in prices of about one-third, absent an offsetting increase in rents.
R52|Obesity and health-related decisions: An empirical model of the determinants of weight status across the transition from adolescence to young adulthood|We estimate a structural dynamic model of the determinants of obesity. In addition to including many of the well-recognized endogenous factors mentioned in the literature as obesity determinants, we also model the individual's residential location as a choice variable, which is the main contribution of this paper to the literature. This allows us to control for an individual's self-selection into communities that possess the types of amenities in the built environment, which in turn affect their obesity-related behaviors such as physical activity (PA) and fast food consumption. We specify reduced form equations for a set of endogenous demand decisions, together with an obesity structural equation. The whole system of equations is jointly estimated by a semi-parametric full information log-likelihood method that allows for a general pattern of correlation in the errors across equations. Our model predicts a reduction in adult obesity of 7 percentage points as a result of a continued high level PA from adolescence into adulthood; a reduction of 0.7 (3) percentage points in adult obesity as a result of one standard deviation reduction in weekly fast food consumption for women (men); and a reduction of 0.02 (0.05) in adult obesity as a result of one standard deviation change in several neighborhood amenities for women (men). Another key finding is that controlling for residential self-selection has substantive implications. To our knowledge, this has not been yet documented within a full information maximum likelihood framework.
R52|Housing prices raise wages: Estimating the unexpected effects of land supply regulation in China|China is currently experiencing rapid rises in labor cost. Since 2003, the central government has increased the share of land use quotas allocated to the central and western regions to support their development. As a result, the relative decline in land supply in the eastern regions has raised housing prices and consequently increased wages, damaging the competitiveness of the Chinese economy. On the basis of city-level panel data from 2001 to 2010, we used the per capita land supply as the instrument variable for housing prices and analyzed the sub-samples along the border between the inland and the eastern regions. We found that land supply policies have led to the rapid growth of housing prices and increased wages in the cities where land supply has been restricted, mainly in eastern region. This study indicates that regardless of the geographical advantages of the east region, land supply policies have had a negative impact on the efficiency and competitiveness of the Chinese economy.
R52|“Province-Managing-County” fiscal reform, land expansion, and urban growth in China|The central government of the People's Republic of China enacted a fiscal reform known as the “Province-Managing-County” (PMC) fiscal reform in the early 2000s. This reform eliminated the prefecture city government as the intermediate layer between the province and the county, and was intended largely to improve administrative efficiency and to lessen the fiscal stress of county governments. We apply a difference-in-difference method using a panel data set of 263 cities nationwide over the period of 1999–2011 to examine how the introduction of the PMC fiscal reform affects the economic growth of the cities. Our results show that on average implementing the PMC fiscal reform moderately increases city GDP growth by around 1 percentage point. We argue that this unexpected positive growth effect of the reform is induced by the expansion of land supply of the reformed cities, which in the post-reform period have faced the need to look for revenues outside the budget system, mainly extra-budgetary funds in the form of leasing land. Our analysis provides evidence on this argument, and reveals that the reformed cities tend to expand land leasing at a rate that is 14% higher than the non-reformed cities. Furthermore, we show that the impacts of the reform tend to be strengthened over time following the introduction of the reform. Our results are quite robust to alternative estimation methods.
R52|Do land use regulations stifle residential development? Evidence from California cities|This paper estimates the extent to which the supply of new housing is restricted by land use regulations using a panel of California cities from 1970–1995. While land use regulation is found to significantly reduce residential development, estimates from fixed effects regressions are about 50–75% smaller than those from pooled regressions. Using the two-way fixed effects model, the implementation of an additional regulation is found to reduce residential permits by an average of 4%, which comes through reductions in both multifamily and single-family permits. Of the regulations measured, those categorized as zoning and general controls have the strongest effects. The partial effects of individual regulations show that while some significantly reduce development, others have a large positive impact.
R52|Preserving history or restricting development? The heterogeneous effects of historic districts on local housing markets in New York City|Since Brooklyn Heights was designated as New York City's first landmarked neighborhood in 1965, the Landmarks Preservation Commission has designated 120 historic neighborhoods in the city. This paper develops a theory in which landmarking has heterogeneous impacts across neighborhoods and exploits variation in the timing of historic district designations in New York City to identify the effects of preservation policies on residential property markets. We combine data on residential transactions during the 35-year period between 1974 and 2009 with data from the Landmarks Preservation Commission on the location of the city's historic districts and the timing of the designations. Consistent with theory, properties just outside the boundaries of districts increase in value after designation. Further, designation raises property values within historic districts, but only outside of Manhattan. As predicted, impacts are more positive in areas where the value of the option to build unrestricted is lower. Impacts also appear to be more positive in districts that are more aesthetically appealing.
R52|Clean money, dirty system: Connected landowners capture beneficial land rezoning|We use a unique regulatory event that occurred in Queensland, Australia, from 2007 to 2012, to examine the predictive power of landowner relationship networks and lobbying behaviour on successfully gaining value-enhancing rezoning. A State authority, the Urban Land Development Authority (ULDA), took planning control away from local councils in selected areas in order to increase the speed and scale of development in those areas, in the process increasing land values. Using micro-level relationship data from multiple sources, we compare the relationship-network characteristics of landowners of comparable sites inside and outside the ULDA areas, finding that ‘connected’ landowners owned 75% of land inside the rezoned areas, and only 12% outside, capturing $410 million in land value gains out of the total $710 million from rezoning. We also find that engaging a professional lobbyist is a substitute for having one’s own connections. Scaling up from our sample of six rezoned areas to the hundreds of rezoning decisions across Queensland and Australia in the last few decades, suggests that many billions of dollars of economic rent are being regularly transferred from the general population to connected landowners through political rezoning decisions.
R52|Time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects|Gestation lags have long been understood to be an important feature of the investment process. However, previous research has focused on the time-to-build part of the gestation period and has provided little information on the earlier time-to-plan period during which key decisions are made about the project's scope and financing. We develop new estimates of time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects in the United States, using a large project-level dataset that allows direct measurement of planning lags. We find that these time-to-plan lags are long, averaging about 16months when we aggregate the projects without regard to size and about 26months when we weight the projects by their construction cost. The full distribution of time-to-plan lags is very wide, and we relate this variation to the characteristics of the project and its location. In addition, we show that time-to-plan lags lengthened by 3 to 4months, on average, over our sample period (1999 to 2010). Regulatory factors are associated with the variation in planning lags across locations, and we present anecdotal evidence that links at least some of the lengthening over time to heightened regulatory scrutiny.
R52|Air pollution and urban structure linkages: Evidence from European cities|This paper investigates the relationship between local air pollution and urban structure with an emphasis on urban fragmentation. Using a unique dataset of 249 Large Urban Zones (LUZ) across Europe, a Bayesian Model Averaging model selection method is employed to identify the determinants of within-LUZ concentration of three air pollutants: NO2, PM10 and SO2. These are supplemented by several indices of land cover and a set of data on various economic, demographic and meteorological variables that might explain the variation of air pollution. The results of this econometric analysis support the hypothesis that urban structure has significant effects on pollution concentration. In particular, the results suggest that fragmented and highly constructed cities experience higher concentrations of NO2 and PM10 and that densely populated cities suffer from higher SO2 concentration. The findings suggest that policies favoring continuous urban areas may result in environmental improvements.
R52|Effects of Protected Areas on Forest Cover Change and Local Communities: Evidence from the Peruvian Amazon|Protected areas are a cornerstone of forest conservation in developing countries. Yet little is known about their effects on forest cover change or the socioeconomic status of local communities. This paper assesses whether “win–win” scenarios are possible—that is, whether protected areas can both stem forest cover change and alleviate poverty. We examine protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon during the early 2000s. We find that protected areas reduce deforestation. We do not find a robust effect on poverty. Protected areas that allow sustainable extractive activities are more effective in reducing deforestation but less effective in reducing poverty.
R52|Transformación de la representatividad política local en contextos extractivos a gran escala en los Andes peruanos|El trabajo se enmarca en esta discusión e intenta contribuir a la literatura existente al analizar cuáles son las condiciones económicas e institucionales en las que se enmarcan las transformaciones en la representatividad política en áreas rurales donde se han instalado grandes proyectos extractivos. Asimismo, buscamos mostrar en qué medida los cambios en el liderazgo campesino han influido en la transformación de dichas formas de representación política.
R52|Gestión territorial local e industrias extractivas: los casos de Querocoto (Cajamarca) y Challhuahuacho (Apurímac)|El estudio analiza el ámbito de dos grandes proyectos mineros y cuatro regiones relacionadas con estos. En primer lugar, el proyecto La Granja, concesionado a la corporación Río Tinto, que se encuentra localizado en el distrito de Querocoto, región Cajamarca, y cuya influencia política abarca también la región Lambayeque. En segundo lugar, el proyecto Las Bambas, concesionado a la corporación Xstrata, que se encuentra en el distrito de Challhuahuacho, región Apurímac, y cuya influencia abarca también la región Cusco. Ambos casos han sido tema de estudio en los capítulos anteriores de este libro.
R52|Los dilemas de la representación política y la capacidad de gestión territorial: conclusiones finales|Se ha tratado de comprender qué caminos institucionales han ido tomando forma alrededor de la gestión del territorio en el contexto de estas transformaciones, y cuál ha sido el papel de las comunidades y rondas campesinas en este escenario.
R52|La cadena de la palma aceitera en contexto|Dado que el objetivo de la investigación es combinar el análisis de las cadenas de valor agropecuarias (CVA) con un enfoque territorial para el diseño de políticas de desarrollo rural sostenible e inclusivo, la revisión de los tres casos se concentra en el desarrollo de modelos de identificación de áreas potenciales para el cultivo de la palma aceitera y alternativas para la inclusión de pequeños productores. Estos son los temas que serán desarrollados para el caso peruano en los siguientes capítulos, por lo que la experiencia de los países vecinos contribuye con alternativas de políticas e incentivos, que pueden ser replicadas e implementadas en el Perú.
R52|Industrias extractivas y desarrollo rural territorial en los Andes peruanos. Los dilemas de la representación política y la capacidad de gestión para la descentralización|Durante las últimas décadas, en el Perú se han producido cambios significativos en las formas de organización y representación local. Estos cambios han afectado el desarrollo de las políticas territoriales en el contexto de proyectos mineros a gran escala. El país ha hecho esfuerzos para contribuir a la gestión del territorio, para lo cual ha promovido instrumentos técnicos públicos como el plan de ordenamiento territorial (POT) y la zonificación ecológica económica (ZEE). Sin embargo, la ocupación desordenada del territorio y el crecimiento acelerado de la inversión han generado un debate sobre la eficacia de estas herramientas. Frente a los nuevos desafíos y las crecientes expectativas, las comunidades campesinas han tenido que negociar la venta o el acceso a sus recursos, mientras que las autoridades locales se han visto obligadas a enfrentar la implementación de políticas de ZEE orientadas al ordenamiento territorial de su jurisdicción. Como resultado, se ha generado una crisis de representatividad que ha contribuido a la proliferación de conflictos. Los cuatro ensayos presentados en este libro constituyen un intento por comprender tanto las transformaciones en las formas de representación política en ámbitos rurales como el efecto que estas tienen en la implementación de políticas de ordenamiento territorial en el contexto de grandes proyectos extractivos. El objetivo último es aportar al debate sobre cómo impulsar una mejor gestión territorial en el marco del desarrollo extractivo del país.
R52|Housing mortgage lending in Russia in 2015|In 2015, according to the data released by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, credit institutions extended 691,943 housing mortgage loans (HML) to the tune of Rb 1,147.339bn, which constituted 68.32% of the total amount of HML extended in 2014 and 65.04% in monetary terms. In the same period, 706,786 housing loans were originated totaling to Rb 1,168.222bn, which in quantity of loans comes to 66.71% and in monetary terms 64.14% of the extended loans.
R52|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|Over 10 months of 2015, entities of all patterns of ownership have built 792,000 fl ats with total fl oor space of 58.9 million sq. m., which climed to 104.2% of fl oor area commissioned as of 1 November 2014. For the category “all fl ats” the rate of accessibility decreased in 2015 on the primary and secondary housing markets to 2.49 and 2.54 years, respectively. Compared to 9 months of 2014, the number of registered plots of land by individuals for the same period of 2015 (429,157 certificates) down 12.61%. In comparison with last year, the number of housing mortgage loans (HML) for 10 months 2015 fell by 33.93% in quantitative terms (526,757 mortgages) and down 37.07% in value terms (Rb 872.82bn). As of 1 November 2015, the HML quality portfolio denominated in roubles has deteriorated: outstanding debt in percent to residual debt has moved up by 0.17 p.p. to 1.02%. Nevertheless, from March 2015, average weighted rate on rouble loans down 1.82 p.p. to 12.89%.
R52|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|The volume of housing mortgage loans (HML) (Rb 985.29 bn) originated during January–November 2015 fell against the volume of HML originated over the same period of 2014 by 32.66% in quantitative terms and by 35.92% in monetary terms. The share of past-due debt in residual debt on HML for November 2015 has gone up in ruble loans by 0.02 p.p. to 1.05%, and on foreign currency loans – by 0.71 p.p. to 19.41%. Weighted average rate on HML in rubles extended during the month, for November 2015, has come to 12.29%, down 0.60 p.p. against October 2015 and down 2.42 p.p. maximum level posted in February 2015. The latter is due to the effective State program.
R52|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In December 2015|In 2015, 691943 housing mortgage loans (HML) were originated totaling to Rb 1.15 trillion, which demonstrate a reduction against 2014 in quantitative terms by 31.68% and in value terms – by 34.96%. The HML portfolio quality deteriorate. In 2015 against 2014, outstanding debt denominated in rubles as a share of residual debt went up by 0.19 p.p. to 1.04% and in foreign currency – by 7.81 p.p. to 20.37%. In 2015, weighted average ruble rate on HML for the year against 2014 moved up by 0.88 p.p. to 13.33%, and weighted average rate in foreign currency moved up by 0.57 p.p. to 9.82%.
R52|Austerity: A Trend Across Russia’S Region|The year of 2015 was marked by a few troublesome trends in the crisis unfolding in Russia’s regions. The overwhelming majority of Russia’s territories ran a budget deficit while regional and municipal debts were piling up. A new trend towards drastic shrinking of consumption took hold. Furthermore, investment continued to decline for three consecutive years. On the other hand, the industrial sector downturn was moderate and geographically localized, and the unemployment rate continued to grow at slowest pace. The outlook for 2016 is negative: the adverse trends are expected to worsen.
R52|The Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In Q1 2016|In Q1 2016, 224,000 ﬂats were built totaling to 15.6 mn sq. m, which constitutes 84% of the ﬂ oor space commissioned in Q1 2015. In Q1 2016, the vol ume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 52.8% the volume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in Q1 2015 and its volume came to 79.13% of the total number of mortgage loans originated in Q1 2016. In Q1 2016, credit institutions extended to borrowers 188,300 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 323.4 bn, which by 48% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in Q1 2015. As of 1 April 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.06 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.08% Average weighted rate for March 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.86% against the maximum value of 14.71% for February 2015.
R52|The real estate market in the Russian Federation in H1 2016|As for 1 August 2016, since the turn of the year 521,600 apartments were built totaling to 37.2 mn sq. m, which constitutes 92.6% of the floor area commissioned during the same period of 2015. Decline in the volumes of commissioned housing in 2016 was owing, first of all, to a reduction of housing floor area constructed by individuals. In H1 2016, the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 33.6% the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in H1 2015 and constituted 79.02% of the total number of mortgages extended during 2016. In H1 2016, credit institutions issued 389,800 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 664.5bn, which by 44.2% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in H1 2015. As of 1 July 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.03 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.11%. Average weighted interest rate for June 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.99% exceeding by 0.48 p.p. interest rates of February 2016.
R52|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|За 10 месяцев 2015 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 792 тыс. квартир площадью 58,9 млн кв. м, что соста- вило 104,2% к площади, введенной на 1 ноября 2014 г. Для категории «все квартиры» коэффициент доступности жилья (КДЖ) сни- зился в 2015 г. на первичном и вторичном рынках соответственно до 2,49 и 2,54 лет. По сравнению с 9 месяцами 2014 г. количество зарегистрированных ипотек земельных участков для физических лиц за аналогичный период 2015 г. (429157 актов) снизилось на 12,61%. В отличие от предыдущего года объем предоставленных ИЖК за 10 месяцев 2015 г. уменьшился на 33,93% по количеству кредитов (526757 кредитов) и на 37,07% в денежном выражении (872,820 млрд руб.). На 1 ноября 2015 г. качество портфеля ИЖК в рублях ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность в процентах от остаточной поднялась на 0,17 п.п. до 1,02%. Тем не менее, начиная с марта 2015 г., средневзвешенная ставка по кредитам в рублях снизилась на 1,82 п.п. до 12,89%.м.
R52|Ипотека В Рф|Объем предоставленных за январь–ноябрь 2015 г. ИЖК (985,29 млрд руб.) снизился по отношению к объему предоставленных за такой же период 2014 г. ИЖК на 32,66% по количеству и на 35,92% в денежном выражении. Доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК за ноябрь 2015 г. увеличилась по кредитам в рублях на 0,02 п.п. до 1,05%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте – на 0,71 п.п. до 19,41%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, за ноябрь 2015 г. составила 12,29%, что на 0,60 п.п. меньше, чем за октябрь 2015 г. и на 2,42 п.п. меньше, чем максимальное значение в феврале 2015 г. в связи с действием программы Правительства РФ.
R52|Ипотека В Рф|В 2015 г. предоставлены 691943 ИЖК на сумму 1,15 трлн руб., что свидетельствует о снижении по сравнению с 2014 г. количественного объема на 31,68% и в денежном выражении – на 34,96%. Качество портфеля ИЖК ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность за 2015 г. относительно 2014 г. в долях от остаточной задолженности увеличилась в рублях на 0,19 п.п. до 1,04%, а в иностранной валюте – на 7,81 п.п. до 20,37%. В 2015 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК за год относительно 2014 г. поднялась в рублях на 0,88 п.п. до 13,33%, а средневзвешенная за год ставка в иностранной валюте выросла на 0,57 п.п. до 9,82%.
R52|Рынок Недвижимости В Рф|В I квартале 2016 г. построено 224,0 тыс. квартир площадью 15,6 млн кв. м, составляющих 84% от площади в I квартале 2015 г. В I квартале 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 52,8% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в I квартале 2015 г., и его объем составил 79,13% от общего количества ипотек в I квартале 2016 г. В I квартале 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 188,3 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 323,4 млрд руб., что на 48% превысило сумму за ИЖК в I квартале 2015 г. На 1 апреля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,06 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,08%. Средневзвешенная ставка за март 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,86%, против максимального значения в 14,71% за февраль 2015 г.
R52|Рынок Недвижимости Российской Федерации В Первой Половине 2016 Г|На 1 августа 2016 г. с начала года построено 521,5 тыс. квартир площадью 37,2 млн кв. м, что составляет 92,6% от площади, введенной за тот же период 2015 г. Снижение введенного жилья в 2016 г. вызвано, прежде всего, уменьшением площади построенного индивидуального жилья. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 33,6% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. и составил 79,02% от общего количества ипотек за 2016 г. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 389,8 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 664,5 млрд руб., что на 44,2% превысило сумму ИЖК в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. На 1 июля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,03 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,11%. Средневзвешенная ставка за июнь 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,99%, превысив данные за февраль 2016 г. на 0,48 п.п.
R52|Assessing and Governing Ecosystem Services Trade-Offs in Agrarian Landscapes: The Case of Biogas|This paper develops a method to explore how alternative scenarios of the expansion of maize production for biogas generation affect biodiversity and ecosystem services (ES). Our approach consists of four steps: (i) defining scenario targets and implementation of assumptions; (ii) simulating crop distributions across the landscape; (iii) assessing the ES impacts; and (iv) quantifying the impacts for a comparative trade-off analysis. The case study is the region of Hannover, Germany. One scenario assumes an increase of maize production in a little regulated governance system; two others reflect an increase of biogas production with either strict or flexible environmental regulation. We consider biodiversity and three ES: biogas generation, food production and the visual landscape. Our results show that the expansion of maize production results in predominantly negative impacts for other ES. However, positive effects can also be identified, i.e. , when the introduction of maize leads to higher local crop diversity and, thus, a more attractive visual landscape. The scenario of little regulation portrays more negative impacts than the other scenarios. Targeted spatial planning, implementation and appropriate governance for steering maize production into less sensitive areas is crucial for minimizing trade-offs and exploiting synergies between bioenergy and other ES.
R52|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Land in 2015|The editors of Land would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2015.[...]
R52|Anthropogenic Influences in Land Use/Land Cover Changes in Mediterranean Forest Landscapes in Sicily|This paper analyzes and quantifies the land use/land cover changes of the main forest and semi-natural landscape types in Sicily between 1955 and 2012. We analyzed seven representative forest and shrubland landscapes in Sicily. These study areas were chosen for their importance in the Sicilian forest panorama. We carried out a diachronic survey on historical and current aerial photos; all the aerial images used to survey the land use/land cover changes were digitalized and georeferenced in the UTM WGS84 system. In order to classify land use, the Regional Forest Inventory 2010 legend was adopted for the more recent images, and the CORINE Land Cover III level used for the older, lower resolution images. This study quantifies forest landscape dynamics; our results show for almost all study areas an increase of forest cover and expansion, whereas a regressive dynamic is found in rural areas due to intensive agricultural and pasturage uses. Understanding the dynamics of forest landscapes could enhance the role of forestry policy as a tool for landscape management and regional planning.
R52|Evaluating the Potential of the Original Texas Land Survey for Mapping Historical Land and Vegetation Cover|This paper reports on research to evaluate the potential of Original Texas Land Survey (OTLS) to generate information that can be used to quantitatively map historical vegetation cover and analyse pertinent aspects of vegetation ecology. Research was conducted in Brazos County in east-central Texas. OTLS data are easy to acquire and convert to geo-referenced autecological information. Reconstructing and mapping vegetation and land cover, conducting vegetation- and species-site analyses with to soil-ecological maps, reconstructing vegetation assemblages and forest structure can be easily accomplished. Due to the irregular surveying framework used by OTLS, mapping gradational grassland-savannah ecotone boundaries is impracticable.
R52|Simulating Littoral Trade: Modeling the Trade of Wine in the Bronze to Iron Age Transition in Southern France|The Languedoc-Roussillon region of southern France is well known today for producing full-bodied red wines. Yet wine grapes are not native to France. Additionally, wine was not developed indigenously first. In the 7th century B.C. Etruscan merchants bringing wine landed on the shores of the Languedoc and established trade relationships with the native Gauls, later creating local viticulture, and laying the foundation for a strong cultural identity of French wine production and setting in motion a multi-billion dollar industry. This paper examines the first five centuries of wine consumption (from ~600 B.C. to ~100 B.C.), analyzing how preference of one type of luxury good over another created distinctive artifact patterns in the archaeological record. I create a simple agent-based model to examine how the trade of comestibles for wine led to a growing economy and a distinctive patterning of artifacts in the archaeological record of southern France. This model helps shed light on the processes that led to centuries of peaceable relationships with colonial merchants, and interacts with scholarly debate on why Etruscan amphorae are replaced by Greek amphorae so swiftly and completely.
R52|Do Smallholder, Mixed Crop-Livestock Livelihoods Encourage Sustainable Agricultural Practices? A Meta-Analysis|As calls for bolstering ecosystem services from croplands have grown more insistent during the past two decades, the search for ways to foster these agriculture-sustaining services has become more urgent. In this context we examine by means of a meta-analysis the argument, proposed by Robert McC. Netting, that small-scale, mixed crop-livestock farming, a common livelihood among poor rural peoples, leads to environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. As predicted, mixed crop-livestock farms exhibit more sustainable practices, but, contrary to predictions, a small scale of operation does not predict sustainability. Many smallholders on mixed crop-livestock farms use sustainable practices, but other smallholders practice a degrading, input-scarce agriculture. Some large farm operators use soil-conserving, minimum-tillage techniques while other large operators ignore soil-conserving techniques and practice an industrialized, high chemical input agriculture. The strength and pervasiveness of the link in the data between mixed crop-livestock farming and sustainable agricultural practices argues for agricultural policies that promote mixed crop-livestock livelihoods.
R52|Toward the Integrated Framework Analysis of Linkages among Agrobiodiversity, Livelihood Diversification, Ecological Systems, and Sustainability amid Global Change|Scientific and policy interest in the biological diversity of agriculture (agrobiodiversity) is expanding amid global socioeconomic and environmental changes and sustainability interests. The majority of global agrobiodiversity is produced in smallholder food-growing. We use meta-analyses in an integrated framework to examine the interactions of smallholder agrobiodiversity with: (1) livelihood processes, especially migration, including impacts on agrobiodiversity as well as the interconnected resource systems of soil, water, and uncultivated habitats; and (2) plant-soil ecological systems. We hypothesize these interactions depend on: (1) scope of livelihood diversification and type resource system; and (2) plant residues and above-/belowground component ecological specificity. Findings show: (1) livelihood diversification is linked to varied environmental factors that range from rampant degradation to enhancing sustainability; and (2) significant ecological coupling of aboveground and soil agrobiodiversity (AGSOBIO assemblages). The environmental impacts of livelihood interactions correspond to variation of diversification (migration, on-farm diversification) and resource system ( i.e. , agrobiodiversity per se , soil, water). Our findings also reveal mutually dependent interactions of aboveground and soil agrobiodiversity. Results identify livelihood diversification-induced reduction of environmental resource quality with lagged agrobiodiversity declines as a potentially major avenue of global change. Our contribution re-frames livelihood interactions to include both agrobiodiversity and ecological systems. We discuss this integrated social-environmental re-framing through the proposed spatial geographic schema of regional agri-food spaces with distinctive matrices of livelihood strategies and relations to biodiversity and resources. This re-framing can be used to integrate livelihood, agrobiodiversity, and ecological analysis and to guide policy and scientific approaches for sustainability in agriculture and food-growing.
R52|Historical Changes of Land Tenure and Land Use Rights in a Local Community: A Case Study in Lao PDR|Land-titling programs, land and forest allocation programs, and projects on state-allocated land for development and investment in Laos have been key drivers of change in land tenure. These have triggered major shifts in land use rights, from customary, to temporary, and then to permanent land use rights. This article explores how government programs to grant land use rights to individual households have affected the way people have been able to acquire and secure land tenure. For our case study, we selected the village of Napo, the target of many land tenure changes in the past four decades. We collected data from district offices, group discussions with village organizations, and interviews with selected households. The study shows how land use rights shifted over time and reveals that households obtained most of their agricultural land and forestland through a claim process. Original households were mainly land claimers, while migrants were land buyers. The process of formalization and allocation of tenure triggered inequality among households. Attention is needed in future land governance and tenure reforms in order to safeguard the land use rights of local people in an equitable manner.
R52|Using Remote Sensing and Random Forest to Assess the Conservation Status of Critical Cerrado Habitats in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil|Brazil’s Cerrado is a highly diverse ecosystem and it provides critical habitat for many species. Cerrado habitats have suffered significant degradation and decline over the past decades due to expansion of cash crops and livestock farming across South America. Approximately 1,800,000 km 2 of the Cerrado remain in Brazil, but detailed maps and conservation assessments of the Cerrado are lacking. We developed a land cover classification for the Cerrado, focusing on the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, which may also be used to map critical habitat for endangered species. We used a Random Forest algorithm to perform a supervised classification on a set of Landsat 8 images. To determine habitat fragmentation for the Cerrado, we used Fragstats. A habitat connectivity analysis was performed using Linkage Mapper. Our final classification had an overall accuracy of 88%. Our classification produced higher accuracies (72%) in predicting Cerrado than existing government maps. We found that remaining Cerrado habitats were severely fragmented. Four potential corridors were identified in the southwest of Mato Grosso do Sul, where large Cerrado patches are located. Only two large patches remain in Mato Grosso do Sul: one within the Kadiwéu Indian Reserve, and one near the southeastern edge of the Pantanal-dominated landscape. These results are alarming for rare species requiring larger tracts of habitat such as the giant armadillo ( Priodontes maximus ).
R52|Comparative Approaches for Innovation in Agent-Based Modelling of Landscape Change|In this Special Issue on “Agent-Based Modelling and Landscape Change” we aimed to bring together articles that showcase innovative uses of agent-based models (ABMs) for investigating and explaining landscape change and dynamics.[...]
R52|Sustainability of Land Groups in Papua New Guinea|This paper consists of a review of existing literature relating to Incorporated Land Groups in Papua New Guinea (PNG), followed by a case study of two urban incorporated land groups (ILGs) in the city of Lae. The paper is an attempt at assessing the sustainability of ILGs in the country. The challenges facing the ILGs have heightened public fears that the land groups may not be sustainable. Based on the argument in previous studies that the ILGs are not sustainable, the paper used primary data from two separate questionnaire surveys of randomly selected ILG landowners (including legal settlers) and ILG stakeholders to investigate the problem. The combined sample size of 129 respondents (32.7%) was representative of the total ILG population, while a total of 25 indicators were used to test the respondents’ perceptions regarding ILG sustainability. Findings reveal that only one of the indicators received the positive support of the stakeholders, while no indicator was supported by the landowners. This suggests that the ILGs in PNG are not sustainable legal entities. This dilemma is a consequence of the challenges facing the ILGs, including the issues of corruption in the Lands Department, illiteracy among landowners, poor publicity given to ILGs’ functions, and the dysfunctional ILG legal framework.
R52|Ecosystem Service Changes and Livelihood Impacts in the Maguri-Motapung Wetlands of Assam, India|Wetlands provide a diverse range of ecosystem services supporting livelihoods of many people. Despite their value, wetlands are continuously being degraded. There is scant information on individual wetlands, people’s dependency and their exploitation at a local scale. We therefore assessed wetland ecosystem services, the drivers of change and impacts of those drivers on ecosystem services and people’s dependency through a case study of the Maguri-Motapung Beel wetlands of Assam, India. Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected through household surveys, focus group discussions, key informant interviews and community workshops. The analyses showed a total of 29 ecosystem services, and high dependency on these with five out of seven livelihood strategies sourced from ecosystem services. Over-exploitation of wetland resources and siltation were reported as the major direct drivers of change with impacts on both ecosystem services and people’s livelihoods. Drastic decreases in availability of thatch, fish stocks, fodder and tourism were observed. This suggests that there is an urgent need for a comprehensive participatory management plan. Actions are needed to maintain the Maguri-Motapung Beel wetlands and the flow of services in order to sustain people’s livelihoods in the area. With an estimated 50% global loss of wetlands in the last century and the loss of 5,000 square kilometers a year in Asia alone, the loss of ecosystem services and livelihood impacts shown in our study may be typical of what is occurring in the region and perhaps globally.
R52|Fluid Waters and Rigid Livelihoods in the Okavango Delta of Botswana|Current and future impacts of climate change include increasing variability in a number of biophysical processes, such as temperature, precipitation, and flooding. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has suggested that Southern Africa is particularly vulnerable to the anticipated impacts from global climate change and that social and ecological systems in the region will be disrupted and likely transformed in future decades. This article engages with current research within geography and cognate disciplines on the possibilities for responsive livelihoods within socio-ecological systems experiencing biophysical change. The paper draws from an ongoing research project that is evaluating perceptions of environmental change, specifically of precipitation and flooding dynamics, in order to understand social responses. We report on the findings from qualitative interviewing conducted in 2010 and 2011 in the communities of Etsha 1, Etsha 6, and Etsha 13 within the Okavango Delta of Botswana. While flooding and precipitation patterns have been dynamic and spatially differentiated, some livelihood systems have proven rigid in their capacity to enable adaptive responses. We assert this demonstrates the need for detailed research on livelihood dynamics to support adjustments to biophysical variability within socio-ecological systems experiencing change.
R52|Regional Patterns of Ecosystem Services in Cultural Landscapes|European agricultural landscapes have been shaped by humans to produce marketable private goods such as food, feed, fiber and timber. Land-use intensification to increase provisioning services in such productive landscapes alters the capacity of ecosystems to supply other services (often public goods and services) that are also vital for human wellbeing. However, the interactions, synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services are poorly understood. We assessed the spatial distribution of the services carbon storage, sediment regulation, water yield, crop production, timber supply, and outdoor recreation in the counties Wetterau and Vogelsberg (Hesse, Germany). These counties represent a gradient from intensive arable land use to more extensive mixed land use systems with domination of grassland and forests. Spatially explicit models were used to map the location and quantity of service supply. We addressed the following questions: (1) Where are areas of high and low supply of individual and multiple ecosystem services? (2) Where do the strongest trade-offs and synergies between different services occur? Our results show a pronounced spatial aggregation of different ecosystem services, with locations where at least four services are being supplied at high levels occupying only 5% of the landscape. Indicators for water provision, timber supply, carbon storage, erosion control, and outdoor recreation are positively related to each other, but this relationship is influenced by the trade-offs associated with the ecosystem service food production. Optimization of ecosystem services at the landscape scale has to take these patterns into account.
R52|Typologies and Spatialization of Agricultural Production Systems in Rondônia, Brazil: Linking Land Use, Socioeconomics and Territorial Configuration|The current Amazon landscape consists of heterogeneous mosaics formed by interactions between the original forest and productive activities. Recognizing and quantifying the characteristics of these landscapes is essential for understanding agricultural production chains, assessing the impact of policies, and in planning future actions. Our main objective was to construct the regionalization of agricultural production for Rondônia State (Brazilian Amazon) at the municipal level. We adopted a decision tree approach, using land use maps derived from remote sensing data (PRODES and TerraClass) combined with socioeconomic data. The decision trees allowed us to allocate municipalities to one of five agricultural production systems: (i) coexistence of livestock production and intensive agriculture; (ii) semi-intensive beef and milk production; (iii) semi-intensive beef production; (iv) intensive beef and milk production, and; (v) intensive beef production. These production systems are, respectively, linked to mechanized agriculture (i), traditional cattle farming with low management, with (ii) or without (iii) a significant presence of dairy farming, and to more intensive livestock farming with (iv) or without (v) a significant presence of dairy farming. The municipalities and associated production systems were then characterized using a wide variety of quantitative metrics grouped into four dimensions: (i) agricultural production; (ii) economics; (iii) territorial configuration, and; (iv) social characteristics. We found that production systems linked to mechanized agriculture predominate in the south of the state, while intensive farming is mainly found in the center of the state. Semi-intensive livestock farming is mainly located close to the southwest frontier and in the north of the state, where human occupation of the territory is not fully consolidated. This distributional pattern reflects the origins of the agricultural production system of Rondônia. Moreover, the characterization of the production systems provides insights into the pattern of occupation of the Amazon and the socioeconomic consequences of continuing agricultural expansion.
R52|Property Arrangements and Soy Governance in the Brazilian State of Mato Grosso: Implications for Deforestation-Free Production|The production of soy is one of the most important economic activities in the Brazilian Amazon, though the expansion of this industry has come at the cost of huge swaths of forest. Since 2006, the private firms that buy and trade soybeans globally have assumed a key role in ensuring that soy producers comply with forest protection policies, including the Soy Moratorium and public policies banning the use of illegally deforested land. We used evidence from field interviews and a GIS of property boundaries and soy-production areas to describe the private sector governance process and to characterize the variety of property arrangements underlying soy production in Mato Grosso, the leading soy-producing state in the Brazilian Amazon. These increasingly complex property arrangements include ownership of multiple properties by a single producer, use of rental properties owned by others, and soy and cattle production on a single property. This complexity could create loopholes allowing soy associated with deforestation to enter the supply chain. Comprehensive soy-governance strategies that include more robust procedures for verifying the provenance of soy across all properties, that account for the entire property rather than only the area planted to soy, and that use more transparent verification systems could achieve greater reductions in deforestation.
R52|Land Sector Reforms in Ghana, Kenya and Vietnam: A Comparative Analysis of Their Effectiveness|The notion that the formal titling and individualization of land rights in developing countries lead to higher investments in land and agricultural productivity holds sway in academic and development circles. In this paper, this notion is analyzed based on a comparative study of land reform programs and their implications for access to land, credit, and agricultural investments in Ghana, Kenya, and Vietnam. It focuses on how different access routes to land influence access to credit, and the transaction costs of land reform programs for agricultural investments. The paper concludes that in developing countries, the transaction costs of land reforms for investments can significantly increase if the influence of power is not addressed in order to reduce unequal access to land. The practical implementation of land reform is influenced by many factors, including the control on political power. Thus, measures must accompany implementation to check the use of power to derail land reform objectives. Moreover, the paper supports the argument that land reforms should be implemented in their local contexts so as to have positive effects on agriculture.
R52|Agro(Eco)System Services—Supply and Demand from Fields to Society|Land use—with a special focus on agriculture—is increasingly influenced by globalization and external driving forces, causing farmers to seek opportunities to develop efficient, large-scale production systems.[...]
R52|The Quiet Rise of Medium-Scale Farms in Malawi|Medium-scale farms have become a major force in Malawi’s agricultural sector. Malawi’s most recent official agricultural survey indicates that these account for over a quarter of all land under cultivation in Malawi. This study explores the causes and multifaceted consequences of the rising importance of medium-scale farms in Malawi. We identify the characteristics and pathways of entry into farming based on surveys of 300 medium-scale farmers undertaken in 2014 in the districts of Mchinji, Kasungu and Lilongwe. The area of land acquired by medium-scale farmers in these three districts is found to have almost doubled between 2000 and 2015. Just over half of the medium-scale farmers represent cases of successful expansion out of small-scale farming status; the other significant proportion of medium-scale farmers are found to be urban-based professionals, entrepreneurs and/or civil servants who acquired land, some very recently, and started farming in mid-life. We also find that a significant portion of the land acquired by medium-scale farmers was utilized by others prior to acquisition, that most of the acquired land was under customary tenure, and that the current owners were often successful in transferring the ownership structure of the acquired land to a long-term leaseholding with a title deed. The study finds that, instead of just strong endogenous growth of small-scale famers as a route for the emergence of medium-scale farms, significant farm consolidation is occurring through land acquisitions, often by urban-based people. The effects of farmland acquisitions by domestic investors on the country’s primary development goals, such as food security, poverty reduction and employment, are not yet clear, though some trends appear to be emerging. We consider future research questions that may more fully shed light on the implications of policies that would continue to promote land acquisitions by medium-scale farms.
R52|Poverty and Environmental Degradation in Southern Burkina Faso: An Assessment Based on Participatory Methods|The poverty and environmental degradation vicious circle hypothesis considers the poor as agents and victims of environmentally degrading activities. Despite some studies, however, there still has not been a sufficient empirical examination of the poverty-environment nexus. Based on participatory poverty assessment (PPA) methods with two hundred farm households categorized by wealth status in southern Burkina Faso, six indicators of environmental degradation and a set of land management practices were examined to answer the following questions: (i) Which households (non-poor, fairly-poor, or poorest) are responsible for environmental degradation? (ii) Does poverty constrain adoption of land management practices considered to improve the land? Results indicate deforestation is highest for non-poor farmers, and non-poor and fairly-poor farmers have higher rates of overgrazing. In addition, the entire non-poor group, mainly recent migrants to the area, occupy borrowed lands with tenure perceived as insecure, considered by farmers to be a disincentive for assisted natural regeneration of vegetation. Thus, non-poor and fairly-poor farmers participate most in activities locally identified as environmentally degrading, and the former contribute more than the latter. On the other hand, adoption of land management practices considered to improve the land is relatively low amongst the poorest farmers.
R52|Agriculture on the Brink: Climate Change, Labor and Smallholder Farming in Botswana|Botswana is a semi-arid, middle-income African country that imports 90 percent of its food. Despite its relative prosperity, Botswana also suffers from one of the highest measures of income inequality in the world, persistent poverty, and relatively high levels of food insecurity. The objective of this paper is to explore how political economy, climate change and livelihood dynamics are synergistically impacting household food security. The major finding is that the marginalization of smallholder farming in Botswana has as much or more to do with domestic, regional and international political economy as it does with climate change. As such, international efforts to support climate change adaptation in Botswana will have a limited effect on smallholder farming livelihoods and rural food security unless such efforts take account of political economic constraints. Effective support must be based on a grounded understanding of the real drivers of marginalization and food insecurity. One initiative that merits further exploration is the government’s backyard gardening initiative, which could be viewed as a pro-poor climate adaptation strategy. The findings of this paper are based on semi-structured interviews with policymakers and surveys with urban, peri-urban and rural households undertaken in 2012 and 2015.
R52|Landscape-Scale Disturbance: Insights into the Complexity of Catchment Hydrology in the Mountaintop Removal Mining Region of the Eastern United States|Few land disturbances impact watersheds at the scale and extent of mountaintop removal mining (MTM). This practice removes forests, soils and bedrock to gain access to underground coal that results in likely permanent and wholesale changes that impact catchment hydrology, geochemistry and ecosystem health. MTM is the dominant driver of land cover changes in the central Appalachian Mountains region of the United States, converting forests to mine lands and burying headwater streams. Despite its dominance on the landscape, determining the hydrological impacts of MTM is complicated by underground coal mines that significantly alter groundwater hydrology. To provide insight into how coal mining impacts headwater catchments, we compared the hydrologic responses of an MTM and forested catchment using event rainfall-runoff analysis, modeling and isotopic approaches. Despite similar rainfall characteristics, hydrology in the two catchments differed in significant ways, but both catchments demonstrated threshold-mediated hydrologic behavior that was attributed to transient storage and the release of runoff from underground mines. Results suggest that underground mines are important controls for runoff generation in both obviously disturbed and seemingly undisturbed catchments and interact in uncertain ways with disturbance from MTM. This paper summarizes our results and demonstrates the complexity of catchment hydrology in the MTM region.
R52|Nitrogen Pollution and the Meltdown of Urban Ecosystems|Urban ecosystems are carrying an extinction debt. Mitigating this debt will require the development of a predictive framework that improves our understanding of the factors causing decline of native biodiversity in urban areas. I argue that nitrogen is a common currency around which such a predictive framework could be built. I first summarise the evidence that shows the probable extent of nitrogen enrichment in urban ecosystems. I then review the body of empirical evidence that describes how nitrogen enrichment affects ecosystem process and function. By unifying these two bodies of empirical evidence, I generate a series of testable hypotheses that may allow for a better understanding of native biodiversity loss in urban areas.
R52|Smallholders, Agrarian Reform, and Globalization in the Brazilian Amazon: Cattle versus the Environment|Smallholder farming in the Brazilian Amazon has changed markedly over the last few decades, following a pervasive swing to cattle production observed across the basin. These changes have brought opportunities for accumulating a modicum of wealth that were not available in the early stages of colonization. At the same time, they have reconfigured livelihood systems away from diversified agriculture to a strong engagement with the cattle economy. They are also exposing smallholders to new forms of exploitation by transnational corporations, seeking to pass risk upstream to less powerful economic agents who provide inputs to production, such as calves. The case of Southeastern Pará provides a natural laboratory for investigating such phenomena, which the article considers through the presentation of data from field research conducted in the region over the past decade. Here, agrarian reform efforts have been particularly intense, and social movements have often espoused a green rhetoric in favor of diversified agriculture, even though smallholders show little interest in anything but cattle. Household level incentives promote Amazonia’s emergent cattle economy, demonstrating how global production networks have reached into the basin, where production relations between smallholders provisioning calves to large ranching operations often resemble what has been referred to in the literature as “ contract farming ” land grabs, given the exploitive terms of trade.
R52|Analysis and Prediction of Land Use Changes Related to Invasive Species and Major Driving Forces in the State of Connecticut|Land use and land cover (LULC) patterns play an important role in the establishment and spread of invasive plants. Understanding LULC changes is useful for early detection and management of land-use change to reduce the spread of invasive species. The primary objective of this study is to analyze and predict LULC changes in Connecticut. LULC maps for 1996, 2001 and 2006 were selected to analyze past land cover changes, and then potential LULC distribution in 2018 was predicted using the Multi-Layer Perceptron Markov Chain (MLP_MC) model. This study shows that the total area of forest has been decreasing, mainly caused by urban development and other human activity in Connecticut. The model predicts that the study area will lose 5535 ha of deciduous forest and gain 3502 ha of built-up area from 2006 to 2018. Moreover, forests near built-up areas and agriculture lands appear to be more vulnerable to conversion. Changes in LULC may result in subtle spatial shifts in invasion risk by an abundant invasive shrub, Japanese barberry ( Berberis thunbergii ). The gain of developed areas at the landscape scale was most closely linked to increased future invasion risk. Our findings suggest that the forest conversion needs to be controlled and well managed to help mitigate future invasion risk.
R52|Enhancement of Linear Agricultural Areas to Provide Invertebrates as Potential Food for Breeding Birds|Birds are an important part of the agricultural landscape, as having nature value, but also as pest control agents and bio-indicators for the health of the environment. Here we look at linear non-crop elements in agricultural areas as a potential source of food for nestlings of avian species. We measured invertebrate availability as it relates to structural complexity at the local and landscape levels in three counties in central Illinois. Invertebrates were measured with taxonomic diversity, abundance, and estimated biomass during spring of 2012 and 2013. Our study shows that easily modifiable field edge characteristics have the greatest impact on invertebrate diversity and abundance, as compared to field and landscape features. This finding shows that a potential invertebrate food source as measured by both diversity and biomass, may be easily enhanced without changes to agricultural practices.
R52|The Influence of Forest Management Regimes on Deforestation in a Central Indian Dry Deciduous Forest Landscape|This research examines the impact of forest management regimes, with various degrees of restriction, on forest conservation in a dry deciduous Indian forest landscape. Forest change is mapped using Landsat satellite images from 1977, 1990, 1999, and 2011. The landscape studied has lost 1478 km 2 of dense forest cover between 1977 and 2011, with a maximum loss of 1002 km 2 of dense forest between 1977 and 1990. The number of protected forest areas has increased, concomitant with an increase in restrictions on forest access and use outside protected areas. Interviews with residents of 20 randomly selected villages indicate that in the absence of alternatives, rather than reducing their dependence on forests, communities appear to shift their use to other, less protected patches of forest. Pressure shifts seem to be taking place as a consequence of increasing protection, from within protected areas to forests outside, leading to the creation of protected but isolated forest islands within a matrix of overall deforestation, and increased conflict between local residents and forest managers. A broader landscape vision for forest management needs to be developed, that involves local communities with forest protection and enables their decision-making on forest management outside strict protected areas.
R52|Urban Agriculture Oriented towards Self-Supply, Social and Commercial Purpose: A Typology|Urban agriculture, a dynamic multifunctional phenomenon, affects the spatial diversification of urban land use, its valorization and its governance. Literature acknowledges its contribution to the development of sustainable cities. The dimension and extent of this contribution depends significantly on the particular form and function of urban agriculture. However, the complexity of interests and dimensions is insufficiently covered by theory. This paper proposes a typology for urban agriculture, supporting both theory building and practical decision processes. We reviewed and mapped the diversity of the types of agriculture found along three beneficial dimensions (self-supply, socio-cultural, commercial) for product distribution scale and actors. We distinguish between ideal types, subtypes and mixed types. Our intention is to include a dynamic perspective in the typology of urban agricultural land use because transition processes between types are observable due to the existence of complex motivations and influences. In a pilot study of 52 urban agriculture initiatives in Germany, we tested the validity of the typology and discussed it with stakeholders, proving novelty and relevance for profiling discussions.
R52|How Are Feedbacks Represented in Land Models?|Land systems are characterised by many feedbacks that can result in complex system behaviour. We defined feedbacks as the two-way influences between the land use system and a related system (e.g., climate, soils and markets), both of which are encompassed by the land system. Land models that include feedbacks thus probably more accurately mimic how land systems respond to, e.g., policy or climate change. However, representing feedbacks in land models is a challenge. We reviewed articles incorporating feedbacks into land models and analysed each with predefined indicators. We found that (1) most modelled feedbacks couple land use systems with transport, soil and market systems, while only a few include feedbacks between land use and social systems or climate systems; (2) equation-based land use models that follow a top-down approach prevail; and (3) feedbacks’ effects on system behaviour remain relatively unexplored. We recommend that land system modellers (1) consider feedbacks between land use systems and social systems; (2) adopt (bottom-up) approaches suited to incorporating spatial heterogeneity and better representing land use decision-making; and (3) pay more attention to nonlinear system behaviour and its implications for land system management and policy.
R52|Patterns and Predictors of Recent Forest Conversion in New England|New England forests provide numerous benefits to the region’s residents, but are undergoing rapid development. We used boosted regression tree analysis (BRT) to assess geographic predictors of forest loss to development between 2001 and 2011. BRT combines classification and regression trees with machine learning to generate non-parametric statistical models that can capture non-linear relationships. Based on National Land Cover Database (NLCD) maps of land cover change, we assessed the importance of the biophysical and social variables selected for full region coverage and minimal collinearity in predicting forest loss to development, specifically: elevation, slope, distance to roads, density of highways, distance to built land, distance to cities, population density, change in population density, relative change in population density, population per housing unit, median income, state, land ownership categories and county classification as recreation or retirement counties. The resulting models explained 6.9% of the variation for 2001–2011, 4.5% for 2001–2006 and 1.8% for 2006–2011, fairly high values given the complexity of factors predicting land development and the high resolution of the spatial datasets (30-m pixels). The two most important variables in the BRT were “population density” and “distance to road”, which together made up 55.5% of the variation for 2001–2011, 49.4% for 2001–2006 and 42.9% for 2006–2011. The lower predictive power for 2006–2011 may reflect reduced development due to the “Great Recession”. From our models, we generated high-resolution probability surfaces, which can provide a key input for simulation models of forest and land cover change.
R52|Mapping Tropical Forest Biomass by Combining ALOS-2, Landsat 8, and Field Plots Data|This research was carried out in a dense tropical forest region with the objective of improving the biomass estimates by a combination of ALOS-2 SAR, Landsat 8 optical, and field plots data. Using forest inventory based biomass data, the performance of different parameters from the two sensors was evaluated. The regression analysis with the biomass data showed that the backscatter from forest object (σ° forest ) obtained from the SAR data was more sensitive to the biomass than HV polarization, SAR textures, and maximum NDVI parameters. However, the combination of the maximum NDVI from optical data, SAR textures from HV polarization, and σ° forest improved estimates of the biomass. The best model derived by the combination of multiple parameters from ALOS-2 SAR and Landsat 8 data was validated with inventory data. Then, the best validated model was used to produce an up-to-date biomass map for 2015 in Yok Don National Park, which is an important conservation area in Vietnam. The validation results showed that 74% of the variation of in biomass could be explained by our model.
R52|Drivers of Households’ Land-Use Decisions: A Critical Review of Micro-Level Studies in Tropical Regions|This paper reviews 91 recent empirical and theoretical studies that analyzed land-use change at the farm-household level. The review builds on a conceptual framework of land-use change drivers and conducts a meta-analysis. Results show that the conversion of forests into cultivated land or grassland, mainly used for agriculture or ranching, are most frequently analyzed. Only a small number of studies consider the transition of wetlands for agriculture and few cases deal with the conversion from agriculture into protected zones. Moreover, interactions between drivers add to the complexity of land-use change processes. These interrelationships are conditioned by institutions and policies. In particular, the market-oriented reforms adopted by many developing countries in the 1980s and 1990s seem to have had an important role in altering land use, while impacts of more recent policies need to be better explored. Many studies rely on small samples and face problems of internal validity. Despite these weaknesses, the literature points at micro-level economic growth, for example in income and capital endowments, as a strong catalyst of human induced land-use change. However, the review suggests that—across the different studies and cases—there is considerable heterogeneity in the relationship between these factors and land-use change.
R52|Addressing the Externalities from Genetically Modified Pollen Drift on a Heterogeneous Landscape|Genetically modified (GM) crops have single or multiple genes introduced to obtain crop characteristics that cannot be obtained through conventional breeding. Pollen mediated gene flow from GM to non-GM crops causes some crops planted as non-GM to become GM, and this imposes economic losses on farmers who planted a non-GM crop but then have to sell the harvest on a GM market. The economic losses that result when both crops are grown together depend on the institutional arrangements and the type of property rights in place. We analyze how the spatial heterogeneity of a farmer’s fields affects the land allocation between buffers, the GM, and the non-GM crop based on cross-pollination and initial assignment of property rights. Greater spatial heterogeneity reduces the possibility of coexistence of crops on the landscape and increases the economic losses. Buffer zones enforced to reduce cross-pollination result in less coexistence on heterogeneous landscapes.
R52|Introduction: The Continued Importance of Smallholders Today|Smallholders remain an important part of human-environment research, particularly in cultural and political ecology, peasant and development studies, and increasingly in land system and sustainability science. This introduction to the edited volume explores land use and livelihood issues among smallholders, in several disciplinary and subfield traditions. Specifically, we provide a short history of smallholder livelihood research in the human-environment tradition. We reflect on why, in an age of rapid globalization, smallholder land use and livelihoods still matter, both for land system science and as a reflection of concerns with inequality and poverty. Key themes that emerge from the papers in this volume include the importance of smallholder farming and land-use practices to questions of environmental sustainability, the dynamic reality of smallholder livelihoods, the challenges of vulnerability and adaptation in contemporary human-environment systems, and the structural and relative nature of the term “smallholder.” Overall these contributions show that smallholder studies are more pertinent than ever, especially in the face of global environmental change. Additionally, we argue that questions of smallholder identity, social difference, and teleconnections provide fertile areas of future research. We conclude that we need to re-envision who the smallholder is today and how this translates into modern human-environment smallholder studies.
R52|Terrestrial Species in Protected Areas and Community-Managed Lands in Arunachal Pradesh, Northeast India|Protected areas (including areas that are nominally fully protected and those managed for multiple uses) encompass about a quarter of the total tropical forest estate. Despite growing interest in the relative value of community-managed lands and protected areas, knowledge about the biodiversity value that each sustains remains scarce in the biodiversity-rich tropics. We investigated the species occurrence of a suite of mammal and pheasant species across four protected areas and nearby community-managed lands in a biodiversity hotspot in northeast India. Over 2.5 years we walked 98 transects (half of which were resampled on a second occasion) across the four paired sites. In addition, we interviewed 84 key informants to understand their perceptions of species trends in these two management regimes. We found that protected areas had higher overall species richness and were important for species that were apparently declining in occurrence. On a site-specific basis, community-managed lands had species richness and occurrences comparable to those of a protected area, and in one case their relative abundances of mammals were higher. Interviewees indicated declines in the abundances of larger-bodied species in community-managed lands. Their observations agreed with our field surveys for certain key, large-bodied species, such as gaur and sambar, which generally occurred less in community-managed lands. Hence, the degree to which protected areas and community-managed lands protect wildlife species depends upon the species in question, with larger-bodied species usually faring better within protected areas.
R52|The Effect of Landscape Composition on the Abundance of Laodelphax striatellus Fallén in Fragmented Agricultural Landscapes|The spatial distribution of crop and non-crop habitats over segmented agricultural landscapes could be used as a means to reduce insect pest populations. Seven land cover categories such as wheat, rapeseed, vegetable, water, built-up, paved road, and unsurfaced road were extracted from GeoEye satellite images dating from late May to late June of 2010. Three diversity metrics and three evenness metrics were estimated from the abovementioned land cover categories for quantifying the effect of landscape composition on nymphal and adult Laodelphax striatellus Fallén. The degree of correlation between the proportion of crop cover and adjacent spatial scales ( r : 0.651–0.983) was higher than the correlation between the proportion of crop cover and nonadjacent spatial scales ( r : −0.255–0.896). While the degree of correlation between diversity indices and abundance of L. striatellus decreased gradually when the spatial scales varied from large (>100 m radius buffer) to small (<100 m). Our study suggests that when using natural biological pest control and ecological engineering practices in the rural-urban fringes, the crop field’s width should be less than 200 m and increasing vegetation diversity within such a scale will be helpful to regulate the insect pests under a certain density.
R52|The Community-Conservation Conundrum: Is Citizen Science the Answer?|Public participation theory assumes that empowering communities leads to enduring support for new initiatives. The New Zealand Biodiversity Strategy, approved in 2000, embraces this assumption and includes goals for community involvement in resolving threats to native flora and fauna. Over the last 20 years, community-based ecological restoration groups have proliferated, with between 600 and 4000 identified. Many of these groups control invasive mammals, and often include protection of native species and species reintroductions as goals. Such activities involve the groups in “wicked” problems with uncertain biological and social outcomes, plus technical challenges for implementing and measuring results. The solution might be to develop a citizen science approach, although this requires institutional support. We conducted a web-based audit of 50 community groups participating in ecological restoration projects in northern New Zealand. We found great variation in the quality of information provided by the groups, with none identifying strategic milestones and progress towards them. We concluded that, at best, many group members are accidental scientists rather than citizen scientists. Furthermore, the way community efforts are reflected in biodiversity responses is often unclear. The situation may be improved with a new approach to data gathering, training, and analyses.
R52|Evidence for Biodiversity Conservation in Protected Landscapes|A growing number of protected areas are defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as protected landscapes and seascapes , or category V protected areas, one of six protected area categories based on management approach. Category V now makes up over half the protected area coverage in Europe, for instance. While the earliest category V areas were designated mainly for their landscape and recreational values, they are increasingly expected also to protect biodiversity. Critics have claimed that they fail to conserve enough biodiversity. The current paper addresses this question by reviewing available evidence for the effectiveness of category V in protecting wild biodiversity by drawing on published information and a set of case studies. Research to date focuses more frequently on changes in vegetation cover than on species, and results are limited and contradictory, suggesting variously that category V protected areas are better than, worse than or the same as more strictly protected categories in terms of conserving biodiversity. This may indicate that differences are not dramatic, or that effectiveness depends on many factors. The need for greater research in this area is highlighted. Research gaps include: (i) comparative studies of conservation success inside and outside category V protected areas; (ii) the contribution that small, strictly protected areas make to the conservation success of surrounding, less strictly protected areas—and vice versa; (iii) the effectiveness of different governance approaches in category V; (iv) a clearer understanding of the impacts of zoning in a protected area; and (v) better understanding of how to implement landscape approaches in and around category V protected areas.
R52|Short-Term Projects versus Adaptive Governance: Conflicting Demands in the Management of Ecological Restoration|Drawing on a survey of large-scale ecological restoration initiatives, we find that managers face contradictory demands. On the one hand, they have to raise funds from a variety of sources through competitive procedures for individual projects. These projects require the specification of deliverable outputs within a relatively short project period. On the other hand, ecologists argue that the complexity of ecosystem processes means that it is not possible to know how to deliver predetermined outcomes and that governance should be adaptive, long-term and implemented through networks of stakeholders. This debate parallels a debate in public administration between New Public Management and more recent proposals for a new approach, sometimes termed Public Value Management. Both of these approaches have strengths. Projectification provides control and accountability to funders. Adaptive governance recognises complexity and provides for long-term learning, building networks and adaptive responses. We suggest an institutional architecture that aims to capture the major benefits of each approach based on public support dedicated to ecological restoration and long-term funding programmes.
R52|Accounting for the Drivers that Degrade and Restore Landscape Functions in Australia|Assessment and reporting of changes in vegetation condition at site and landscape scales is critical for land managers, policy makers and planers at local, regional and national scales. Land management, reflecting individual and collective values, is used to show historic changes in ecosystem structure, composition and function (regenerative capacity). We address the issue of how the resilience of plant communities changes over time as a result of land management regimes. A systematic framework for assessing changes in resilience based on measurable success criteria and indicators is applied using 10 case studies across the range of Australia’s agro-climate regions. A simple graphical report card is produced for each site showing drivers of change and trends relative to a reference state (i.e., natural benchmark). These reports enable decision makers to quickly understand and assimilate complex ecological processes and their effects on landscape degradation, restoration and regeneration. We discuss how this framework assists decision-makers explain and describe pathways of native vegetation that is managed for different outcomes, including maintenance, replacement, removal and recovery at site and landscape levels. The findings provide sound spatial and temporal insights into reconciling agriculture, conservation and other competing land uses.
R52|Land Use and Land Cover Change in the Bale Mountain Eco-Region of Ethiopia during 1985 to 2015|Anthropogenic factors are responsible for major land use and land cover changes (LULCC). Bale Mountain Eco-Region in Ethiopia is a biodiversity-rich ecosystem where such LULCC have occurred. The specific objectives of this study were to: (i) determine which LULC types gained or lost most as a result of the observed LULCC; (ii) identify the major drivers of the LULCC/deforestation; and (iii) assess the approximate amount of carbon stock removed as a result of deforestation during the study period. Remote sensing and GIS were used to analyze LULCC. Landsat images acquired in 1985, 1995, 2005, and 2015 were used. Additionally, data from the Central Statistics Agency on cropland expansion, and human and livestock population growth were analyzed and correlations were made. The results showed that forest lost 123,751 ha while farmland gained 292,294 ha. Farmland and urban settlement expansion were found to be major drivers of LULCC. Aboveground carbon stock removed from forest and shrubland was more than 24 million tons. In the future, allocation of land to different uses must be based on appropriate land use policies. Integrating biodiversity and ecosystem values for each land cover as per the UN Sustainable Development Goal (UN-SDG) 15.9 may be one of the mechanisms to limit unplanned expansion or invasion of one sector at the expense of another.
R52|Historical and Current Niche Construction in an Anthropogenic Biome: Old Cultural Landscapes in Southern Scandinavia|Conceptual advances in niche construction theory provide new perspectives and a tool-box for studies of human-environment interactions mediating what is termed anthropogenic biomes. This theory is useful also for studies on how anthropogenic biomes are perceived and valued. This paper addresses these topics using an example: “old cultural landscapes” in Scandinavia, i.e., landscapes formed by a long, dynamic and continuously changing history of management. Today, remnant habitats of this management history, such as wooded pastures and meadows, are the focus of conservation programs, due to their rich biodiversity and cultural and aesthetic values. After a review of historical niche construction processes, the paper examines current niche construction affecting these old cultural landscapes. Features produced by historical niche construction, e.g., landscape composition and species richness, are in the modern society reinterpreted to become values associated with beauty and heritage and species’ intrinsic values. These non-utilitarian motivators now become drivers of new niche construction dynamics, manifested as conservation programs. The paper also examines the possibility to maintain and create new habitats, potentially associated with values emanating from historical landscapes, but in transformed and urbanized landscapes.
R52|Integration of ALOS PALSAR and Landsat Data for Land Cover and Forest Mapping in Northern Tanzania|Land cover and forest mapping supports decision makers in the course of making informed decisions for implementation of sustainable conservation and management plans of the forest resources and environmental monitoring. This research examines the value of integrating of ALOS PALSAR and Landsat data for improved forest and land cover mapping in Northern Tanzania. A separate and joint processing of surface reflectance, backscattering and derivatives (i.e., Normalized Different Vegetation Index (NDVI), Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Radar Forest Deforestation Index (RFDI), quotient bands, polarimetric features and Grey Level Co-Occurrence Matrix (GLCM) textures) were executed using Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. The classification accuracy was assessed using a confusion matrix, where Overall classification Accuracy (OA), Kappa Coefficient (KC), Producer’s Accuracy (PA), User’s Accuracy (UA) and F 1 score index were computed. A two sample t-statistics was utilized to evaluate the influence of different data categories on the classification accuracy. Landsat surface reflectance and derivatives show an overall classification accuracy (OA = 86%). ALOS PALSAR backscattering could not differentiate the land cover classes efficiently (OA = 59%). However, combination of backscattering, and derivatives could differentiate the land cover classes properly (OA = 71%). The attained results suggest that integration of backscattering and derivative has potential of utilization for mapping of land cover in tropical environment. Integration of backscattering, surface reflectance and their derivative increase the accuracy (OA = 97%). Therefore it can be concluded that integration of ALOS PALSAR and optical data improve the accuracies of land cover and forest mapping and hence suitable for environmental monitoring.
R52|Prediction of Land Use Change in Long Island Sound Watersheds Using Nighttime Light Data|The Long Island Sound Watersheds (LISW) are experiencing significant land use/cover change (LUCC), which affects the environment and ecosystems in the watersheds through water pollution, carbon emissions, and loss of wildlife. LUCC modeling is an important approach to understanding what has happened in the landscape and what may change in the future. Moreover, prospective modeling can provide sustainable and efficient decision support for land planning and environmental management. This paper modeled the LUCCs between 1996, 2001 and 2006 in the LISW in the New England region, which experienced an increase in developed area and a decrease of forest. The low-density development pattern played an important role in the loss of forest and the expansion of urban areas. The key driving forces were distance to developed areas, distance to roads, and social-economic drivers, such as nighttime light intensity and population density. In addition, this paper compared and evaluated two integrated LUCC models—the logistic regression–Markov chain model and the multi-layer perception–Markov chain (MLP–MC) model. Both models achieved high accuracy in prediction, but the MLP–MC model performed slightly better. Finally, a land use map for 2026 was predicted by using the MLP–MC model, and it indicates the continued loss of forest and increase of developed area.
R52|Large-Scale Mapping of Tree-Community Composition as a Surrogate of Forest Degradation in Bornean Tropical Rain Forests|Assessment of the progress of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets set by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the safeguarding of ecosystems from the perverse negative impacts caused by Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation Plus (REDD+) requires the development of spatiotemporally robust and sensitive indicators of biodiversity and ecosystem health. Recently, it has been proposed that tree-community composition based on count-plot surveys could serve as a robust, sensitive, and cost-effective indicator for forest intactness in Bornean logged-over rain forests. In this study, we developed an algorithm to map tree-community composition across the entire landscape based on Landsat imagery. We targeted six forest management units (FMUs), each of which ranged from 50,000 to 100,000 ha in area, covering a broad geographic range spanning the most area of Borneo. Approximately fifty 20 m-radius circular plots were established in each FMU, and the differences in tree-community composition at a genus level among plots were examined for trees with diameter at breast height ≥10 cm using an ordination with non-metric multidimensional scaling (nMDS). Subsequently, we developed a linear regression model based on Landsat metrics (e.g., reflectance value, vegetation indices and textures) to explain the nMDS axis-1 scores of the plots, and extrapolated the model to the landscape to establish a tree-community composition map in each FMU. The adjusted R 2 values based on a cross-validation approach between the predicted and observed nMDS axis-1 scores indicated a close correlation, ranging from 0.54 to 0.69. Histograms of the frequency distributions of extrapolated nMDS axis-1 scores were derived from each map and used to quantitatively diagnose the forest intactness of the FMUs. Our study indicated that tree-community composition, which was reported as a robust indicator of forest intactness, could be mapped at a landscape level to quantitatively assess the spatial patterns of intactness in Bornean rain forests. Our approach can be used for large-scale assessments of tree diversity and forest intactness to monitor both the progress of Aichi Biodiversity Targets and the effectiveness of REDD+ biodiversity safeguards in production forests in the tropics.
R52|Greenhouse Gas Implications of Peri-Urban Land Use Change in a Developed City under Four Future Climate Scenarios|Present decisions about urbanization of peri-urban (PU) areas may contribute to the capacity of cities to mitigate future climate change. Comprehensive mitigative responses to PU development should require integration of urban form and food production to realise potential trade-offs. Despite this, few studies examine greenhouse gas (GHG) implications of future urban development combined with impacts on PU food production. In this paper, four future scenarios, at 2050 and 2100 time horizons, were developed to evaluate the potential GHG emissions implications of feeding and housing a growing urban population in Sydney, Australia. The scenarios were thematically downscaled from the four relative concentration pathways. Central to the scenarios were differences in population, technology, energy, housing form, transportation, temperature, food production and land use change (LUC). A life cycle assessment approach was used within the scenarios to evaluate differences in GHG impacts. Differences in GHG emissions between scenarios at the 2100 time horizon, per area of PU land transformed, approximated 0.7 Mt CO 2 -e per year. Per additional resident this equated to 0.7 to 6.1 t CO 2 -e per year. Indirect LUC has the potential to be significant. Interventions such as carbon capture and storage technology, renewables and urban form markedly reduced emissions. However, incorporating cross-sectoral energy saving measures within urban planning at the regional scale requires a paradigmatic shift.
R52|Unexpected Interactions between Agricultural and Forest Sectors through International Trade: Wood Pallets and Agricultural Exports in Costa Rica|International market forces have played an increasingly important role in shaping land use dynamics through complex supply chains. In Costa Rica, the shift from a net loss to a net gain in forest cover was facilitated by forest plantations and the replacement of extensive cropland and pastures by export-oriented, high-yielding crops. However, agricultural intensification generated several feedbacks affecting forests. We analyzed the interactions between Costa Rica’s agricultural and forestry sectors associated with the use of wood pallets for commodity exports over 1985–2013. Wood pallets for growing agricultural exports created a demand for domestic tree plantations. The annual land demand for tree plantations to produce these wood pallets increased by 669%, reaching 17,606 ha in 2013 and representing 28% of the increase in demand for cropland for agricultural exports over 1994–2013. Wood supplied from plantations failed to fully substitute for wood from natural forests, only allowing for a relative substitution and preventing a major sparing of these forests. The dominant use of wood from plantations for production of low-value pallets de-incentivized investments in sustainable plantations. We showed that, beyond the typical interactions between agriculture and forestry through direct competition for land, international trade generated unexpected feedback where agricultural activities and supply chains affected forestry by triggering new demand and profound changes in forestry management. Land systems behave as complex systems, calling for integrated approaches to study the outcomes of forest conservation, reforestation programs, and development of land-based businesses.
R52|Modelling effects of policy instruments for sustainable urban transport in Scandinavia|The purpose of this paper is to review the modelling used for the planning of infrastructure and design of policy instruments for transport in cities in Scandinavia, and to survey elasticities of transport demand with respect to policy instruments and important background variables. There are a number important objectives governing policy, maximizing welfare, reducing CO2 and other emissions, curbing congestion on roads and crowding in public transport in cities and improving the conditions for walking and cycling. The current transport demand models in Sweden and Norway were originally built to serve the purpose of forecasting for national infrastructure planning, primarily outside cities. They were not designed to represent the adaption of car use, congestion on roads or crowding in public transport or the effects of improving of conditions for walking and cycling. Therefore, recent discussions on the needs to develop planning for cities has raised these issues. The central results from the survey of effects are that, car use is shown to be more price sensitive in urban than in rural areas, and larger the larger the city. Although the benefits of a given congestion charging system are considerably and non-linearly dependent on initial congestion levels, traffic effects and adaptation costs are surprisingly stable across transport system modifications. The demand for car travel is largely insensitive to supply of public transport and on baseline congestion, and therefore on the total benefit of the charges. For public transport both population size and population density appear to independently influence public transport use. The estimated elasticities being 0,48 and 0,17 respectively. What is not obvious is when supply could improve net welfare. Both an increase in the population and the following crowding can motivate an increase in frequency by the increased net welfare. Large dense cities with more public transport are found to have less car use. The form of the city and its long time use of strategies to facilitate public transport use also decreases the market share of car travel and increases the share of public transport. In large cities density is also found to be correlated with less car and energy use in many cross-sectional studies. The idea that density could induce less car use and CO2-emissions is however challenged by a smaller number of longitudinal studies showing smaller effects from density to car use and CO2-emissions. It has been suggested that some of the effects found in cross sectional studies may not remain in before and after studies. Even though land use policies can be beneficial, their effects are generally less well known than policies addressing transport congestion externalities. As these are better known and likely to be welfare improving the effects of policy instruments associated with congestion pricing, parking pricing, improvements of the supply of public transport are likely to be preferable.
R52|Unlock the lock-in! Balance of rights in relation to betterment and compensation in Poland|Many Polish cities are faced with a dilemma: to enact their local land-use plans and be exposed to the immediate financial consequences of their adoption, or to protect their budgets against these costs and give up control of the development of the cities. There are very broad compensation rights for value decline due to planning regulations and for areas designated in plans for public roads. At the same time, current planning system policies and instruments in Poland largely neglect how the costs of providing urban infrastructure and services are socialized and how the benefits of development processes are privatized. The use of value capture instruments is very limited. This paper discusses the distribution of rights and liabilities in relation to the two main sides of the property-values effect caused by land-use planning regulations and public works in Poland, in the background of the new planning system and property-rights approach adopted in the country. The article presents the current situation, initially explores a possible ways forward based on varied international experiences, discusses the institutional design of land markets, and indicates the need for planning by Law and property rights.
R52|Towards a national indicator for urban green space provision and environmental inequalities in Germany: Method and findings| Action 5 of the EU 2020 Biodiversity Strategy explicitly mentions that member states will map and assess the state of ecosystems and their services in their national territory by 2014 with the assistance of the Commission. Access to urban green is a key contributor to social and ecological functions in urban environments. However, in Germany - like in many other European countries - a national indicator measuring the provision of urban green on household and individual level is missing. This study develops a national indicator for urban green space provision and environmental inequalities in Germany on household and individual level. We investigate the provision of urban green by merging geo-coded household data from the German Socio- Economic Panel (GSOEP) and census population data with geo-coded data on land use from the European Urban Atlas (EUA) for German major cities with more than 100.000 inhabitants. Based on open green space standards applied in European urban city planning we de ne two variables measuring access to green: First, we estimate the distance to urban green measured as the Euclidean distance between the household and the nearest green-site in meters. Secondly, we calculate the coverage of urban green space around the households in square meters. Results of the distance analysis based on GSOEP data show a mean and median distance to public green space of 229:1m and 190:5m, respectively. The results further indicate that 93% of the German households have access to green space within a 500m and 74.1% within a 300m bu er around their location. The average green space provision in German major cities adds up to 8:1m2 per capita (median). Moreover, statistical analysis of the socio-economic background of the households shows di erences in urban green provision related to income, education, employment status, migration background and nationality. We also identify di erences in green space provision on the city level ranging from 10:6ha (city of Frankfurt/Oder) to 1:2ha (city of Schwerin) green space within 500m around the household. Distances to the nearest urban green also vary between cities ranging from 99m (city of Frankfurt/Oder) to 349m (city of Schwerin). The coverage of green space per capita ranges from 36m2 (city of Bergisch Gladbach) to 2:5m2 (city of Schwerin). We also provide a ranking of German major cities based on the green space provision on city level. The analysis further shows an unequal distribution of green within cities. The ndings provide helpful information for policy and planning to ensure an adequate green space provision and to eliminate related environmental inequalities in Germany.
R52|Leader Networks and Transaction Costs: A Chinese Experiment in Interjurisdictional Contracting|Do leader networks promote efficient intergovernmental contracts? We examine a groundbreaking policy in China where subprovincial governments freely traded land conversion quotas, and investigate the role of leader networks on the boundary between jurisdictions that embrace trade versus autarky. Consistent with the presence of Williamsonian transaction costs featuring uncertainty, incomplete contracting, and asset specificity, we find that leader career networks facilitate trade, controlling for institutional similarity and prior trade relations. However, trade gains can be limited if leader networks offer selective coverage. Using data from the Chinese experiment, we find evidence consistent with trade match distortions induced by leader networks.
R52|Testing block subdivision algorithms on block designs|Abstract Integrated land use–transportation models predict future transportation demand taking into account how households and firms arrange themselves partly as a function of the transportation system. Recent integrated models require parcels as inputs and produce household and employment predictions at the parcel scale. Block subdivision algorithms automatically generate parcel patterns within blocks. Evaluating block subdivision algorithms is done by way of generating parcels and comparing them to those in a parcel database. Three block subdivision algorithms are evaluated on how closely they reproduce parcels of different block types found in a parcel database from Montreal, Canada. While the authors who developed each of the algorithms have evaluated them, they have used their own metrics and block types to evaluate their own algorithms. This makes it difficult to compare their strengths and weaknesses. The contribution of this paper is in resolving this difficulty with the aim of finding a better algorithm suited to subdividing each block type. The proposed hypothesis is that given the different approaches that block subdivision algorithms take, it’s likely that different algorithms are better adapted to subdividing different block types. To test this, a standardized block type classification is used that consists of mutually exclusive and comprehensive categories. A statistical method is used for finding a better algorithm and the probability it will perform well for a given block type. Results suggest the oriented bounding box algorithm performs better for warped non-uniform sites, as well as gridiron and fragmented uniform sites. It also produces more similar parcel areas and widths. The Generalized Parcel Divider 1 algorithm performs better for gridiron non-uniform sites. The Straight Skeleton algorithm performs better for loop and lollipop networks as well as fragmented non-uniform and warped uniform sites. It also produces more similar parcel shapes and patterns.
R52|Certification Matters: Is Green Talk Cheap Talk?|There is an active and growing literature examining the rental rate, sales price, and occupancy premiums associated with sustainable or energy efficient certified real estate. To date, the focus has rested largely on office properties and for sale single family residential properties. We examine the rental rates achieved by green multifamily properties, providing the first look at the population of LEED market-rate apartments in the United States. We find an approximate 8.9 % rental rate premium associated with LEED apartments. Moreover, this research provides the first indication that LEED certification garners an additional premium over non-certified space that identifies as green, indicating the strength of the certification signal and contributing to the longstanding discussion on the merits of certification. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
R52|Additional Annual Fees as a Consequence of a Failure to Develop Real Estate Let into Perpetual Usufruct|Public property management includes, among others, the control of the manner in which the real estate let into perpetual usufruct was developed. Besides the provisions of the acts and the rules of social interaction, an agreement appears to be a significant element shaping the content of the right of perpetual usufruct. The consequence of a failure to develop real estate let into perpetual usufruct may be imposing additional annual fees. In practice, this issue raises numerous problems and controversies, and it is also subject to non-uniform decisions. The research thesis of this article is that the current regulations regarding additional annual fees contained in the Real Estate Management Act are imprecise. The aim of the study is to analyse the problems relating to the imposition of additional annual fees. The analysis was carried out based on the results of the study of the process of imposing additional fees by the Municipality of Krakow in the years 2010-2014.
R52|The Concept of the Model for the Selection of Sustainable Office Building Location|The paper presents the concept of the decision-making model facilitating the selection of location for an office building fulfilling the requirements of sustainable construction. The concept of responsible property investing was discussed on the basis of literature studies. Sustainable office buildings are one of the ways of its practical implementation and the location of a building is among the evaluation criteria in sustainable building multicriteria certification systems, so it can improve the rating of a building. The proposed decision model for the selection of location was elaborated on the basis of multicriteria decision analysis applied in the GIS environment. Analytical criteria applied in the model were compiled on the basis of the BREEAM certification system. When the required data and spatial information are applied to this model, it allows to prepare the map of optimal spatial decisions.
R52|Land Cover and Land Use Indicators: Review of available data|This paper identifies opportunities to refine OECD’s indicators of land cover and land use and their regular production for all OECD and G20 countries. A comprehensive review is conducted of the available datasets at the global, regional and national levels, including data derived from remote sensing as well as those complemented with administrative and survey data. The datasets are assessed in terms of their geographic coverage, periodicity, spatial resolution, data reliability and comparability. The paper discusses the potential use of such datasets for the production of indicators that are harmonised across countries and over time. It is found that data on land cover are widely available and that many OECD countries have good-quality national land cover datasets, in some cases consistently over time. However, considerable differences have been found among the land cover products reviewed in terms of their geographic coverage, spatial, temporal and thematic resolution. For eight countries, no country- or region-specific data could be found (including Israel, Korea, Colombia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia). On the other hand, data on land use seem to be much scarcer, available only for Australia, European countries, Japan and the United States. The paper concludes with a discussion of selection guidelines for, and examples of, potentially suitable datasets in terms of their geographic coverage and the temporal, spatial and thematic resolution. Ce rapport identifie les possibilités d’affiner les indicateurs de l’OCDE sur l’occupation et l’utilisation des terres, ainsi que leur production régulière pour tous les pays de l’OCDE et ceux du G20. Il propose un examen complet des ensembles de données disponibles au niveau mondial, régional et national, incluant les données de télédétection et les informations complétées par des données administratives et tirées d’enquêtes. Les sources de données sont évaluées par rapport à leur couverture géographique, périodicité, fiabilité et comparabilité de l’information. Le rapport étudie l’utilisation potentielle de ces ensembles de données pour produire des indicateurs harmonisés entre pays et dans le temps. On constate que les données sur la couverture du sol sont largement disponibles et que de nombreux pays de l’OCDE ont des données nationales de bonne qualité, parfois même consistantes dans le temps. Néanmoins, des différences importantes persistent parmi les produits de couverture du sol examinés, en particulier la couverture géographique, la résolution spatiale et thématique et la précision des données. Pour huit pays (Israël, la Corée, la Colombie, le Costa Rica, l’Inde, l’Indonésie, la Fédération de Russie et l’Arabie saoudite), aucune donnée nationale ou régionale n’a pu être trouvée. Les données sur l’utilisation des terres semblent en revanche bien plus rares et ne sont disponible que pour l’Australie, les pays européens, le Japon et les États-Unis. Ce rapport conclut avec une discussion sur les méthodes de sélection, ainsi que des exemples de sources de données potentiellement adéquates en termes de couverture géographique, de résolution temporelle, spatiale et thématique.
R52|El potencial dinamizador de los grandes equipamientos comerciales en espacios metropolitanos. Un análisis comparado en tres realidades españolas|La distribución comercial en grandes equipamientos posee carácter estratégico para la cohesión social y territorial, revistiendo elevada importancia la consideración, en planeamiento territorial y urbanístico, de la evaluación de efectos inducidos por dicha forma de comercio así como su capacidad de prevalencia sobre criterios de ordenación preestablecidos. Esta investigación se plantea la comparación de dinámicas de desarrollo de la actividad en entornos metropolitanos representativos españoles evidenciando su inherente potencial transformador urbano así como las estrategias de emplazamiento seguidas. Los resultados muestran la desviación entre el escenario real de localizaciones y el preconizado por modelos territoriales emanados de la planificación pública.
R52|Attempts to delineate functional regions in Hungary based on commuting data|The issue of defining functional regions in Hungary is presented in this paper, which contains detailed methodological description with the help of relevant studies from the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The use of Smart’s measure together with the CURDS algorithm and the relatively new concept of trade-off constraint function with four different sets of parameter values provided four optional solutions for this issue, based on the analysis of daily travel-to-work flows from the 2011 census. The resulting regions correspond to the micro-regional level and give valuable additions to the discussion about regionalization. The paper provides basic descriptive statistics for each of the four variants of functional region systems, which enables their overall evaluation (seeing advantages and disadvantages) and mutual comparison (seeing similarities and differences), and thus facilitates an informed debate on future work in functional regionalisation in Hungary carried out with respect to different purposes.
R52|Direct-selling farming and urban externalities: What impact on product quality and market size?|In this paper, we study how proximity to cities affects the decisions of farmers to enter the direct-sales market in the presence of spatial heterogeneity in agricultural yields. We develop a theoretical model which takes account of the externality of urban pollution and market access costs on direct-selling profits. We find that regions hosting an intermediate-size city are more likely to supply a wider range of direct-selling varieties. Additionally, we highlight that spatial heterogeneity in productivity creates distortions in the competition among farmers, and can have concomitant undesired effects on both the quality and range of available varieties.
R52|The Housing Market Impacts of Constraining Second Home Investments|We investigate how political backlash against wealthy second home investors in high-amenity places - tourist areas or superstar cities - affects local residents. We develop a general equilibrium model and exploit a quasi-natural experiment -the 'Swiss Second Home Initiative' (SHI) -to test the key predictions of the model. Consistent with theory, we find that the SHI, which banned the construction of new second homes in desirable tourist locations, lowered transaction prices of primary homes in affected areas by around 12 percent but did not adversely affect prices of second homes. Our findings suggest that the negative effect on local economies dominated positive amenity-preservation effects. We conclude that constraining second home investments may reinforce rather than reduce wealth inequality.
R52|Housing Policies in Hong Kong, China and the People’s Republic of China|This paper analyzes the housing markets and housing policies in Hong Kong, China and the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Both markets face housing affordability problems due to limited land supply, for which the solutions vary considerably. Hong Kong, China has adopted a railway and property development model, which involves close collaboration between the government and property developers in compact urban areas, while leaving most greenbelts and surrounding islands underdeveloped. Although the PRC has pledged to maintain a minimum level of basic farmland to feed its large population, this target has often been compromised due to local governments’ fiscal constraints and growth concerns.
R52|Housing policies in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and the United States: lessons learned|We provide an analysis of the housing market and current housing policies in three developed countries: the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and the United States. We focus on these three countries mainly because of the marked differences in their institutional settings. The United Kingdom is characterized by fiscal centralization and an extraordinarily rigid planning system. The consequences of this setting, which make housing supply extremely unresponsive to changes in house prices, are a high degree of urban containment, a severe housing affordability crisis, and a housing shortage, particularly for the young. The key UK policy, Help-to-Buy, which focuses on stimulating housing demand, fails to address the affordability crisis, because increasing demand only pushes up house prices further without expanding housing supply. Fiscal decentralization and a lax zoning system—both are encouraging residential development—and an extraordinarily low homeownership rate explain why Switzerland’s main political concerns are sprawl and rent stabilization. The country’s key policies aim to tackle these two concerns, but those same policies have some important unintended consequences. The United States is characterized by fiscal federalism and an enormous variation in the tightness of land use restrictiveness across metropolitan areas. The key policy concern across the country is homeownership attainment and the key policy to tackle this issue is the mortgage interest deduction (MID). This policy backfires in metropolitan areas that are prosperous and where land use is tightly regulated— “superstar cities”—because, in these places, the policy-induced demand increase mainly pushes up house prices. The MID increases homeownership attainment of only higher-income households in metropolitan areas with lax land use regulation. The net effect of the policy on homeownership attainment across the country is essentially zero. We conclude that the assessment of housing policies crucially depends on the fiscal and regulatory environment in local housing markets. Policies that stimulate housing demand, such as the MID or Help-to-Buy, are doomed to fail in markets with tight regulation or otherwise tight supply.
R52|Housing Policy in the Republic of Korea|This paper evaluates housing policy in the Republic of Korea over the past several decades, describes new challenges arising from the changing environment, and draws lessons for other countries. The most important goals of the housing policy have been to alleviate housing shortages and to stabilize housing prices. To achieve these goals, the government has been engaging the private sector while establishing public sector institutions and legal framework, providing developable land, and allocating housing units to intended target groups. Thanks to the sustained and massive provision of new housing since the 1980s, the country’s absolute housing shortage has been resolved, and overall housing conditions have improved substantially. Since the turn of the new millennium, enhancing the housing welfare of low-income households and the underprivileged has been added to housing policy goals. The supply of public rental housing was increased, and a housing benefit was introduced to address the new policy goal, but more work needs to be done. Today, the Republic of Korea also faces new housing challenges regarding the country’s demographic and socioeconomic changes.
R52|Land Policy and Urbanization in the People’s Republic of China|We explore the relationship between land policies and urbanization in the PRC. We analyze the land policies associated with urbanization and summarize findings related to central and local government involvement in the process of urbanization. In particular, we explore the relationship between urbanization and land leasing. We find that the urbanization rate and the land leasing revenue are positively related. Land leasing provides financial support for PRC urbanization, but damages the interest of landless peasants. Especially in the west, population urbanization lags behind land urbanization, resulting in much higher land and house prices in the east than those in inland PRC. Current land and household registration policies hinder the mobility of production factors, including construction land and the labor force, and distort the process of urbanization and industrialization. Land policy should be revised such that the market determines the allocation of land resources, which will create a unified, competitive urban–rural land market.
R52|"La lucha de los ""rabassaires"": análisis de largo plazo de un movimiento social y político"|In 1964, Emili Giralt described the ‘rabassaire’ struggle in the late 19th century as “the most intense unrest in the Catalan countryside since the rebellion of the 'remences' in the 15th century”. As Giralt explained, this conflict subsided momentarily only to reappear in the 1920s with the creation of a peasant union, ‘Unió de Rabassaires’, which in the 1930s became the major organization in the Catalan countryside and led the way to the social and political struggle of the Catalan peasantry until the Civil War. We want to address this peasant struggle in the long-term. Following Charles Tilly, we understand this social movement as a form of political action which had an early period in the late 18th century and reached its maturity in the late 19th century and the early 20th century. Its development was shortened by the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Beyond the organizational changes arising from the different social and political situations, a new long-term overview can shed light to the continuities in this movement, especially in terms of building a social identity and legitimating its claims and its struggle.
R52|Spatial Planning and Segmentation of the Land Market|In this paper we provide evidence of segmentation of the Dutch land markets by spatial planning into three compartments referring to agricultural, industrial and residential use. We analyze transactions of ready-to-be developed land provided by the Dutch Land Register (Kadaster) and find that residential land is much more expensive than industrial land. We also compare the prices observed in these transactions with prices for agricultural land in the vicinity and find that agricultural land is much cheaper than residential and industrial land.
R52|Government Expropriation Increases Economic Growth and Racial Inequality: Evidence from Eminent Domain|Is it justified for states to appropriate private property rights? If so, should governments expropriate or regulate?We test three conventional views: insecure property rights cause underinvestment, moral hazard cause overinvestment, or public use cause economic growth.We embed these mechanisms in a model and measure them using the random assignment of U.S. federal court judges setting geographicallylocal precedent. For a half-century, racial minority Democrats were more likely to strike down government appropriations while Republican former federal prosecutors were more likely to uphold them. We find that pro-government physical takings precedent stimulated subsequent takings, expropriation of larger parcels, highway construction, and growth in construction, transportation, and government sectors as well as agriculture, retail, and financial sectors, overall economic growth, and property values. However, racial minorities were increasingly displaced, unemployed, and living in public housing, and the service sector declined. Pro-government regulatory takings precedent also spurred economic growth and property values, but did not increase displacement or racial inequality.
R52|Government Expropriation Increases Economic Growth and Racial Inequality: Evidence from Eminent Domain|Is it justified for states to appropriate private property rights? If so, should governments expropriate or regulate?We test three conventional views: insecure property rights cause underinvestment, moral hazard cause overinvestment, or public use cause economic growth.We embed these mechanisms in a model and measure them using the random assignment of U.S. federal court judges setting geographicallylocal precedent. For a half-century, racial minority Democrats were more likely to strike down government appropriations while Republican former federal prosecutors were more likely to uphold them. We find that pro-government physical takings precedent stimulated subsequent takings, expropriation of larger parcels, highway construction, and growth in construction, transportation, and government sectors as well as agriculture, retail, and financial sectors, overall economic growth, and property values. However, racial minorities were increasingly displaced, unemployed, and living in public housing, and the service sector declined. Pro-government regulatory takings precedent also spurred economic growth and property values, but did not increase displacement or racial inequality.
R52|The Determinants of Non-residential Real Estate Values with Special Reference to Local Environmental Goods|This paper presents the results of an empirical study of the determinants of non-residential real estate values in Los Angeles County. The data base consists of 13, 370 property transactions from 1996 to 2005. Separate spatial econometric models are developed for industrial, commercial, retail and office properties. The study focus on the impact on property values of local amenities. Our analytical results provide insights on how amenities may affect non-residential properties values and how the impact may differ across property types. Our empirical results offer evidence that explicitly modeling spatial dependence is necessary for hedonic non-residential property models where there is interest in local amenities. We also show that it is also important to account for the temporal dimension since ignoring it can lead to misinterpretation of the real measure of spatial dependence over time. Moreover, we find that in general amenities that are jointly valuable to firms and household, such as parks or air quality have either weak or non-robust effects on nonresidential values. However, the fact that the joint amenities coastal access and crime appear to have stable correlations across specifications would be consistent with a higher firm than household valuation. In contrast, those amenities that are likely only valued by firms, such as transportation access and proximity to concentrations of skilled workers have robust and significant correlations with non-residential values. JEL codes: R52, H23
R52|The Effect of Downzoning for Managing Residential Development and Density|This study analyzes the effect of a downzoning policy on both the probability and the density of residential development using a difference-in-differences (DID) approach. Spatially explicit panel data on subdivisions are exploited to estimate average treatment effects for downzoned areas. Our results indicate that although downzoning does not significantly alter the probability of development, it does strongly affect the density of development. The DID model results suggest that the lower probability of development in agricultural zoning relative to the urban residential control area is not attributable to downzoning but rather to baseline differences that exist prior to policy adoption.
R52|The Essence of Equivalent Markets in Determining the Market Value of Land Property for Variable Planning Factors|The leading local legislation act defining the spatial policy is the local development plan, the financing of which is the commune’s responsibility. The beneficiary of activities aimed at the transformation of the intended property use is its owner or its perpetual lessee – with lessees incurring the costs of adopting the local development plans through so-called zoning fees, the amount of which, often controversial, has become the source of numerous lawsuits. The presented problem of an outside-business and often radical change of land value corresponds to the market dilemmas in determining equivalent markets, and establishing price-setting factors and their impact on the value of real estate.
