R59|Internal forced displacement and crime: Evidence from Colombia|Internal forced displacement, a phenomenon associated to internal conflict, poses important socio-economic challenges for the receiving areas. One of the most relevant aspects is related to crime, since the reception of forced displaced persons might increase inequality and the heterogeneity of population. This paper studies the relationship between internal forced displacement and crime. We use a panel of Colombian municipalities for the period 2003-2016. We include spatial patterns for the study of crime, allowing to capture the dynamics of this relationship across time and space. Our results provide evidence of a spatial correlation between crime and internal forced displacement.
R59|Do public libraries impact local labor markets? Evidence from Appalachia|This paper investigates the effect of public library programs and participation on unemployment and labor force participation in Appalachia. Appalachia is an economically distressed area, mostly rural, and with a sustained lower level of labor force participation and a higher level of unemployment. As public library programs can be countercyclical to labor market outcomes, I use public library staff and the amount of print resources and computers available as instruments. The results show that neither adult nor children’s programs and participation affect local labor market outcomes. These results are robust across different specifications. Spatial econometric estimates corroborate the main results and provide evidence of spatial spillover effects, especially for children’s programs.
R59|On the discrepancy in the social efficiency measures between parametric and non-parametric production technology identification|In conventional social productive efficiency measurements that consider the production of undesirable outputs such as CO2, a DEA-based non-parametric method of production possibility frontier (PPF) identification coupled with the directional distance-function approach a-la Luenberger (1992) is typically employed. This paper shows that the discrepancy between parametric and non-parametric methods of PPF identification in social inefficiency measures can be non-negligibly large when the number of observations is small or the data are not well-scattered. By using the same data as Ha etÂ al. (2011), who used non-parametric PPF identification to measure the social efficiency of Japan's inter-city transport services with lifecycle CO2 as the undesirable output, this paper demonstrates that adopting parametric PPF identification instead can result in considerably higher inefficiency measures for decision making units (DMUs) with relatively large undesirable outputs.
R59|The Effect of Kumon Method on Motivation for Learning: Evidence from Junior High School Student in Japan|In this paper, we analyze the effects of the Kumon Method of Learning on junior high school students' attitude toward learning. Since the “National Assessment of Academic Ability” was implemented in 2007, the factors affecting the improvement of academic achievement has drawn attention among regional governments. This paper focuses on the case of a Japanese public junior high school, which was once considered to be a challenging school (konnan-ko). We investigated how students' learning behavior and non-cognitive skills changed after implementing the Kumon mathematics program as an extracurricular activity. The empirical results show that the Kumon studies had positive effects on students' learning attitude- i.e., an attitude to reason by analogy, an attitude to find solutions by trial and error, and having a goal image in the vicinity. Furthermore, we find that the aforementioned attitude has significant impact on certain non-cognitive skills, i.e., processing skills, correction skills and thinking skills,) as well as students' test scores. Our findings suggest that effectiveness of introducing Kumon learning method as a co-curricular activity in addition to the national curriculum.
R59|The problem of non-optimal management of urban green areas in Warsaw|"In his paper the author looks at management of urban green areas in Warsaw as a principal agent problem. In the study the principal is the City Mayor, while the agent is institution responsible for managing street trees in Warsaw (ZOM). While the City Mayor is interested in enhancing the welfare of their constituency, the lower level officers do not have to be preoccupied with the same concerns - they are interested in maximizing their utility subject to some constraints imposed by their bosses. This is a standard hierarchical agency theory model. As the agent’s contract is not incentive compatible, the theoretical ""residual claimancy"" condition does not hold, and the species composition is different from what it would have been if the principal-agent model implemented was incentive compatible."
R59|"Interregionale Zusammenarbeit: Notwendigkeit und Herausforderung für informelle ""Erneuerbare-Energie-Regionen"""|Renewable energy regions are valued as important drivers of the German energy transition. Nevertheless they are hardly engaged in interregional coordination processes of goals and activities, and they are a missing voice in vertical coordination processes of energy related multi-level governance. This fact has been neglected by research for a long time. The article shows needs and possibilities for action of a strategic cooperation of renewable energy regions and also examines its obstacles. Finally, consequences for future research on renewable energy regions are derived. Erneuerbare Energie-Regionen werden als Treiber der Energiewende von unten wertgeschätzt. Sie sind aber bisher weder in der horizontalen, interregionalen Abstimmung regionaler Ziele in nennenswertem Umfang aktiv, noch haben sie eine Stimme in vertikalen, handlungsebenenübergreifenden energiepolitischen Abstimmungsprozessen (Mehrebenen-Governance). Dieser Tatbestand wird in der Forschung zu Erneuerbare-Energie-Regionen bisher nicht angemessen problematisiert und bearbeitet. Der Beitrag zeigt, welche Handlungsbedarfe und -möglichkeiten für eine strategisch-politische interregionale Zusammenarbeit bestehen und beleuchtet die möglichen Hemmnisse einer solchen Zusammenarbeit. Abschließend werden Konsequenzen für die zukünftige Forschung formuliert.
R59|The Costs and Benefits of Alternative Development Patterns: A Paradigm of Two Universities|Cities are places where innovation, invention, technological and knowledge spillovers occur. However, they are also places where unemployment, crime, pollution, and exploitation of human resources occur. One major problem of cities of today is the low density leapfrog/scattered development pattern that leads to high service provision costs and reduces the welfare of society. This study aims at comparing the cost of smart versus scattered development patterns for Pakistan. Due to data limitations two universities are selected for analysis purpose. On the basis of observational analysis QAU is labeled as leapfrog/scattered whereas COMSATS is categorized as Compact Development. We hypothesize that low density scattered development leads to higher service provision and social costs and compact development can lead to cost savings. The empirical exercise consisted of a randomized survey indicate that COMSATS students have better access to different facilities due to compact development pattern. The ordinal probit model was employed on survey results. Connectivity was found to be significantly associated with walkability though association is not the same as causation. The comparative analysis for service provision cost showed striking cost differential, as QAU spends a lot more than COMSATS to provide basic facilities. The results prove the baseline hypothesis. It is suggested that. QAU should use elements of smart growth like infill development and should make better use of large land endowment rather than it has become a curse. Both universities should work to raise social interaction among students. The real benefits of smart growth lie with the cities, and each city should apply smart growth to achieve cost savings and higher social capital.
R59|Nota metodológica sobre el impacto de la crisis económica en una zona minera y aplicación a un caso|El objetivo de esta Nota de Investigación es mostrar una metodología que permite analizar la evolución socioeconómica de una región y, a partir de ello, valorar cuantitativamente los beneficios o perjuicios derivados de las políticas adoptadas. El trabajo empírico consiste en un análisis descriptivo de conglomerados con respecto a una selección de variables relacionadas con el desarrollo de 105 municipios mineros y limítrofes de las provincias de León y Palencia entre 2007 y 2014. El resultado indica que, en efecto, el impacto derivado de la crisis económica fue muy importante, especialmente en materia de empleo. Abstract: The aim of this Research Note is to show a methodology that will allow us to analyze the socio-economical evolution of a region as a case-study, and from thereon to make a quantitative evaluation of the benefits or prejudices derived from the policies previously adapted. The empirical work consists of an empirical analysis of conglomerates regarding a selection of variables related to the development of 105 mining municipalities bordering the provinces of Leon and Palencia between 2007 and 2014. The results demonstrate that, in effect, the impact derived from the economic crisis was very important, especially when it comes to employment.
R59|The Refugee Crisis On Twitter: A Diversity Of Discourses At A European Crossroads|In the last decade, the European Union has approved and launched measures to promote Intercultural Cities, Diversity Management and the Integration of Immigrants in Europe. Despite this European framework, we are now at a crossroads between solidarity and humanity and an important restriction of refugees’ human rights across Europe. In this paper, we try to compare the international approaches to the refugee crisis in different countries in Europe. Data were extracted from Twitter. We obtained thousands of tweets about “refugees”, using this word in six different languages (English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish) from end November 2015 to 27 February 2016 as search strings. We performed a discourse analysis, focusing on the comparison between countries. A qualitative analysis with the help of both Atlas ti and T-Lab software was performed. The results showed a diversity of current discourses in Europe about refugees and the refugee crisis (from solidary to xenophobic ones), some of them very characteristic of particular countries or of local events experienced in these countries. These results allow us to reinforce the idea that we are at a key moment for the future development of Europe, especially regarding aspects concerning living together in cities and villages.
R59|Changing Dynamics In The Middle East After The Arab Awakening; The Position Of Turkish Foreign Policy|The transformation and power struggle in the Middle East after the Arab Spring and actual withdrawal of the USA in December 2011 from Iraq and therefore from the Middle East caused serious changes in the dynamics and balances of the region. The aim of this paper is to investigate evolving foreign policy strategies, activities of both regional and global actors on Middle East from the perspective of Turkey. The changes in the Middle East policy of Turkey after such changes and the effects of regional and systemic actors on such changes were studied comparatively with the foreign policies of Iran and Saudi Arabia. The national powers of Iran, Turkey and Saudi Arabia, the effective power centers in the region, were measured and compared to each other. Within this context, it was attempted to reveal the roles that these countries assumed in the changes in the region based on their powers from the perspective of Turkey. Furthermore, the critiques of relations of Turkey with the region countries and the foreign policy approaches it abortively produced against the regional changes were assessed within the new atmosphere developing in the Middle East.
R59|Geographical clustering and the effectiveness of public innovation programs|The paper analyzes how geographical clustering of beneficiaries might affect the effectiveness of public innovation support programs. The geographical proximity of firms operating in the same industry or field of technology is expected to facilitate innovation through knowledge spillovers and other localization advantages. Public innovation support programs may leverage these advantages by focusing on firms that operate in a cluster. We investigate this link using data from a large German program that co-funds R&D projects of SMEs in key technology areas called 'Innovative SMEs'. We employ three alternative cluster measures which capture industry, technology and knowledge dimensions of clusters. Regardless of the measure, firms located in a geographical cluster are more likely to participate in the program. Firms being part of a knowledge-based cluster significantly increases their chance of receiving public financial support. We find no effects, however, of geographical clustering on the program's effectiveness in terms of input or output additionality.
R59|Could climate change affect government expenditures? Early evidence from the Russian regions|This paper explores the implications of climate change for government expenditures. Using a rich sub-national dataset for Russia covering 1995–2009, we estimate the impacts of changes in climatic conditions through short-term variation and medium-term changes in average regional temperatures and precipitation. We show a strong and robust negative (but non-linear) relation between regional budget expenditures and population-weighted temperature. The results indicate that an increase in temperature results in a decrease in public expenditures and that the magnitude of this effect diminishes the warmer the region. Further, our results suggest that the benefits from warming accumulate and that adaptation measures could help leverage those benefits. The estimated decreases in regional government expenditure are, however, quite small. It should be noted that our results are estimated for a scenario of mild temperature increase (1–2 °C). Larger temperature increases are likely to have dramatic consequences e.g. from loss of permafrost and methane release that are impossible to predict with available historical data.
R59|Development policies and partnerships in Greece: experiences from Thessaloniki|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the importance of specific local development policies and partnerships for SME enterprises in Thessaloniki one of the metropolis of south Europe. The two main research questions are: first, what are the most important development policies for firms’ development? and second, in what level these policies receive different significance from firms belonging in different production sectors? Design/methodology/approach - – In order to achieve the aims of the paper and answer the research questions, the study uses an extensive use of bibliography, and field research that has been implemented by administering questionnaires on a representative sample of 227 enterprises. The study comes up to valuable conclusions for the firms and the city through the use of exploratory factor analysis, reliability analysis and clustering. Findings - – The present research brings on important issues and questions about local economic development because it presents directly the estimations and views of a large number of local enterprises that reflect the image of local economy. Finally, this research gives a satisfactory overview of the inner growth of Thessaloniki and further the results could lead to an evaluation, planning, implementation, rejection or reconstruction of specific actions and policies locally. Research limitations/implications - – The analysis is constrained by weakness since the sample of enterprises is rather small and the results concern only the enterprises located in Thessaloniki. Based on this fact, general conclusions can be drawed for other regions as well as for the whole Greece. This is subjected to more analysis. Practical implications - – The added value of this research is essential since there are only few similar researches in South-East Europe and in Greece. Especially, the relationship between local development policies and firms’ development competitiveness has not been studied enough in the area under consideration. Social implications - – Enterprises understand and designate the importance of specific policies that affect their development while at the same time through their evaluations they outline the character and dynamics of these policies in a unique dynamic, geographical and productive city like this of Thessaloniki. Originality/value - – The analysis showed that enterprises recognize as positive factor the effort of the local authorities to set the area as a business pole in favour of enterprises and the broader area but policy problems of organization and planning arise that concern mainly the operation and support of local enterprises and specific those from the tourist and service sector. This image raises issues of competence on planning and organization of development polices by the local authorities focusing on specific productive sectors so as the effect of these policies to be effective with positive results for enterprises.
R59|An Integrated Methodological Framework for the Definition of Local Development. Strategies for Fisheries Local Action Groups: an application to the Stretto Coast FLAG in South Italy|The programme 2007 – 2013 marks an important review process of UEâ€™s Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), borrowing from the Leader Approach the typical features both of territorial and local development and bottom-up approaches. In the process of policy formulation we see, with the creation of the Fisheries Local Action Group (FLAGs), a greater involvement of the local actors coming from public, private and no-profit sphere. In particular, the socio- economic partnership of the FLAG is the governance system responsible of the definition of Local Development Plans (LDP). The goal of this study is to present an integrated methodology that may be utilized to facilitate the elaboration of a development strategy built on the basis of local knowledges and shared by all partnership members. In particular, the proposed planning process follows three main phases: territorial analysis, animation and concertation. A decision support system, based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process and a convergence process was used in order to elicit, and successively aggregate, the individual preferences related to priority measures and interventions, to be included in the LDP. The proposed methodology has been applied for the definition of the LDP of the Stretto Coast FLAG in South Italy allowing the definition of a development strategy shared by the partnership as a whole.
R59|Too much EMU? An investigation of technology gaps|Although European Single Market (ESM) has been widely perceived as a model for regional integration, there continues to be considerable debate about the impact of this integration on the EU regions. Studies in this field have mainly investigated the convergence-divergence issue, while the effect of ESM on regional performance has attracted few empirical studies. The non-parametric metafrontier framework used in this study, as a first stage of analysis, is exploited to account for the heterogeneity between the Italian regions in the whole period and in two distinct time periods before and after EMU implementation. In a second stage, using a partial least squares model, the technology gaps estimated for each period have been regressed, investigating possible factors that may have affected regional performance. Our findings reveal a significant improvement for the Italian regions since ESM implementation, a paradoxically unchanged behavior for efficiency performance in the Centre-North regions, and clear identification of specifically which regions performed better in terms of the technology gap. The inclusion of variables related to regional trade performance in the model indicates that trade balance is of major importance.
R59|Análisis de las zonas rurales andaluzas y su turismo, desde una óptica de proximidad geográfica a los núcleos urbanos andaluces|La importancia del turismo rural como motor de desarrollo en Andalucía ha producido un creciente interés. Sin embargo, un aspecto mencionado a menudo, pero escasamente estudiado, es el referido a la distancia entre el lugar de residencia y el municipio turístico. Éste es el eje central del artículo, que trata de conocer la relación entre la intensidad de oferta de alojamiento y la distancia a los núcleos urbanos, así como el grado en el que la distancia entre municipios rurales y urbanos puede considerarse un factor relevante en el establecimiento de la tipología de zona rural.
R59|Institutional Structures in the Growth Pole Policy from Romania|While aware that dynamics of institutional structures in policy implementation may seriously affect that particular policy, we analyze the dynamics of institutions involved in regional development, more specifically those involved in urban development, in the development of growth poles. Based on a Government decision from 2008, the focus of this policy is on prioritizing investments from structural and cohesion funds related to urban development and on state budget funds towards the development of 7 major cities from Romania, which have been declared growth poles, one in each region, with the exception of the region that includes the capital city.In this context, we focus our analysis on the dynamics of two institutional structures developed specifically within the growth pole policies in Romania, namely on inter-community development associations (IDA) established in each of the 7 growth poles and on the growth pole coordinator structures from within the Regional Development Agencies, taking into account the framework provided by the Regional Operational Program 2007-2013 (ROP), Priority Axis 1 - Support for urban sustainable development - Urban Growth Poles. This program provides framework and subsidies for the development of the growth pole policy in Romania, stimulating the development of institutional framework for growth pole policy, while also stimulating strategic planning in growth poles. We expect that the functioning of the growth pole coordinator structures be influenced by that of the IDA, and that the exogenous influences (EU funding through operational program) in the setting of these structures also affect their functioning, with structures established under endogenous influences performing better from human and financial points of view than the ones established under exogenous influences. The research involved brief analysis of institutional framework, based on legal documents, observation based on observation grid in order to analyze contents of documents, with focus on human and financial performance of IDAs, and exploratory interviews with growth pole coordinators, focusing on growth poles that are established under exogenous influences.
R59|The influence of civil society in the democratization of intelligence, a slow pace process in Mexico?s democracy|The conceptualization and the practise of national security in the Mexico?s political dynamic during most of the twentieth century symbolized the security of the regime. Civil society as such was poorly developed. The intelligence services operated with a high level of discretion due to the absence of a legal framework preventing them being subject to any oversight.In this context, the right for access to information introduced by the first democratic transition government was a turning point. Isolated civil society efforts done before 2000 were empowered and their pressure for openness of the intelligence sector finally became feasible for the very first time in Mexico?s modern history.To date, the Centre for Investigation and National Security (the main national intelligence agency) seems to have taken off its image of political police and made considerable efforts to prevent human rights abuses. There are still massive opportunity areas. Mexico?s democratic transition aftermath could be the right time for civil society to continue pressuring and thus continuing helping in building the state institutions Mexico, as a global actor, needs.
R59|Benchmarking Metis Economic and Social Development|This is a report on the socio-economic development of the Metis in Canada. The report identifies appropriate indicators to benchmark Metis socio-economic development against non-Aboriginal socio-economic development, while establishing a benchmark against which future progress can be gauged. Quite briefly, there have been strong gains in Metis socio-economic development, especially concerning income and education. In particular, Metis median income reached 86.7 per cent of non-Aboriginal median income in 2010, up from 72.9 per cent in 2000. In terms of education, the share of the Metis with a college, CEGEP or other non-university certificate or diploma as their highest degree actually surpassed the share of the non-Aboriginal population in similar areas by 2011. However, there are still a number of gaps that remain. For example, the Metis continue to have poorer indicators of health, especially concerning smoking. Furthermore, the Metis still have lower levels of suitable housing than the non-Aboriginal population. One of the most interesting findings of the report is the large gaps that exist within the Metis Nation between provinces. The report concludes that concerted efforts, determined cooperation, and substantial participation from Metis leaders and Metis organizations at both the provincial and national level will be required to close the remaining gaps between provinces within the Metis Nation and between the aggregate Metis and non-Aboriginal populations.
R59|Determinants of machinery firms' innovation activity - case study from the Czech Republic|Innovative activities have been considered mandatory for surviving in a dynamic market environment, inter alia in the machinery industry. Nothing has received as much attention as innovation, which has been pinpointed as the fundamental driving force for economic growth and welfare as well as a key factor in competitiveness. Therefore, innovation growth is seen as a mechanism to influence economic growth, and therefore firms capable of increasing their innovation potential benefit from further increasing competitive advantage and economic growth. However, innovations do not arise within one company in isolation. Today, in the so-called knowledge economy, innovation ? more than most other economic activities ? depends on new economic knowledge, which is perceived to be the basic ingredient of the innovative process. It follows that the increased complexity of knowledge processes influences firms, because organizations need to be able to respond to the growing demand for improved innovation, mainly in the mentioned machinery industry which is trapped by cost and innovation pressure. Thus, innovative units as well as local institutions and individuals have to interact with each other and with their external environment because collaboration with suppliers, customers and competitors enables a firm to deepen its existing technological competence. Moreover, collaboration with research organizations helps a firm broaden its technological knowledge and firms can acquire new scientific knowledge to benefit their product or process innovations by interacting formally and informally with universities and research institutes. The aim of this paper is the identification and evaluation of specific important determinants of innovative activities that influence the economic growth of enterprises in the machinery industry in the Czech Republic by using own multiple regression models. Selected determinants of innovative activities are (i) total turnover, (ii) R&D expenditures, acquisition of external knowledge and total innovation expenditure, (iii) significant market, (iv) membership of a group of enterprises, (v) implementation of innovated goods, (vi) public financial support. For the data analysis we used a harmonized questionnaire of EU Member States from the Community Innovation Survey that was carried out in the Czech Republic for the period 2010 ? 2012. In total, the analysis was performed on data of 284 Czech enterprises from the machinery industry with at least 10 employees. We can say that the greatest influence on the dependent variable was analyzed in determinants of the market supported by the government, and support by EU funds. Results show that there are large numbers of factors that affect the innovation activity, but their significance are marginal.
R59|La planeación por escenarios aplicada sobre políticas urbanas: el caso del mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia)|Resumen El mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia), también conocido como Bazurto, es considerado actualmente como un foco de contaminación y caos urbano, siendo a su vez proveedor de recursos alimentarios para cerca del 80% de la población de la ciudad. Los problemas que aquejan a los habitantes del sector, parecen ser constantes en el tiempo; desde la creación de la primera gran plaza pública de la ciudad en 1904 (conocida como el mercado de Getsemaní), los iterados factores críticos (medio ambiente, economía y sociedad) han transcendido a convertirse en amenazas latentes. Este documento con la aplicación del método de planeación por escenario apoyado en un panel de expertos, visualiza futuros posibles (deseados y proyectados) para el mercado de Bazurto para un periodo de 15 años, en donde el traslado y la intervención, parecen ser las opciones más adecuadas para la solución de dichas problemáticas.
R59|La planeación por escenarios aplicada sobre políticas urbanas: el caso del mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia)|Resumen El mercado central de Cartagena (Colombia), también conocido como Bazurto, es considerado actualmente como un foco de contaminación y caos urbano, siendo a su vez proveedor de recursos alimentarios para cerca del 80% de la población de la ciudad. Los problemas que aquejan a los habitantes del sector, parecen ser constantes en el tiempo; desde la creación de la primera gran plaza pública de la ciudad en 1904 (conocida como el mercado de Getsemaní), los iterados factores críticos (medio ambiente, economía y sociedad) han transcendido a convertirse en amenazas latentes. Este documento con la aplicación del método de planeación por escenario apoyado en un panel de expertos, visualiza futuros posibles (deseados y proyectados) para el mercado de Bazurto para un periodo de 15 años, en donde el traslado y la intervención, parecen ser las opciones más adecuadas para la solución de dichas problemáticas.
R59|Identificación de los encadenamientos más promisorios del sector agroindustrial del departamento del Quindío (Colombia)|Resumen El propósito de este documento es identificar los encadenamientos más promisorios del sector agroindustrial en el departamento del Quindío (Colombia), examinando el marco de la política nacional y regional de productividad y competitividad, la información de fuentes secundarias y documentos referenciales. Se hizo un estudio correlacional, se revisaron, analizaron e interpretaron las variables (apuestas de encadenamientos productivos) halladas en las citadas unidades y se organizaron en matrices de convergencia que permitieran asociar temas comunes. Temas en los cuales se identificaron programas y estrategias enfocados a cinco encadenamientos en el departamento del Quindío: café, plátano, guadua, frutales de clima cálido y frío, y plantas aromáticas y medicinales.
R59|Ciclo intergeneracional de la violencia doméstica contra la mujer: Análisis para las regiones de Colombia|El objetivo de esta investigación fue identificar y analizar la existencia del ciclo intergeneracional de la violencia doméstica contra la mujer, perpetrada por su pareja. Este artículo aporta a la literatura nuevas perspectivas de políticas orientadas a mitigar los efectos generados por este tipo de violencia. A partir de la Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (2010), se utilizaron modelos probit con errores estándar robustos, cuyos resultados indican que las conductas violentas se transmiten entre padres e hijos, así como también, que existen diferencias regionales en la probabilidad de sufrir violencia doméstica.
R59|The political life of the Ukrainian minority in the province of Polesia between 1918 and 1939|The article presents functioning of the political parties that focus the Ukrainian minority that lived in the province of Polesia in the interwar period. An enormous influence on the activity of the Ukrainian political parties had the Communist parties (KPZU, KPZB), which effectively supplanted the Ukrainian nationalist groups that acted in Polesia. From the beginning of the thirties the repressions of Polish security apparatus were so strong that almost completely inhibited the development of the Ukrainian political life.
R59|Total Decisiones de inserción laboral: el caso de los jóvenes rurales peruanos| This paper identifies the determinants of employment for rural young people aged 15 to 29 from the National Survey of Youth (Enajuv 2011), the first such survey representative of Peruvian rural youth. Data from this survey shows that rural unemployment is half of the urban rate, and that participation rates in labor markets are higher for rural youth. The pattern is different for rural young women, only 62.1% of whom provide labor to the market. The results, from a logit model, show that the decision to enter the labor market is closely linked to the decision to study and to undertaking unpaid family work. Moreover, the high percentages of youth engaged in unpaid family work (39% for men, 42% women) seem to show that the decision to participate in the labor market is made at the household level and not individually.
R59|Privatization Policies by National and Regional Governments|In order to analyze the privatization policies undertaken by the national and regional governments, we consider a horizontal differentiation model with price competition in which a country consists of two regions of different sizes. We show that public-sector intervention by either the national or regional government is essential for achieving the social optimum, because a private duopoly does not achieve the social optimum. However, not all public interventions in firms are better than the private duopoly. On the other hand, the preferences of consumers and firms about privatization policy are completely opposite. Finally, the privatization policies of regional governments are completely opposite from one region to the other, and do not coincide with that of the national government. Overall, this paper shows that the relative size of regions is an important feature in the design of the privatization policies implemented by national and regional governments.
R59|Getting a full-time job as a part-time unemployed: How much does spatial context matter?|This paper investigates the extent to which differences in the probability to exit from part-time unemployment to a full-time job are accountable for by spatial contextual factors and individual characteristics. To correctly incorporate contextual effects, a multilevel analysis is applied using a mixed-effects model to explore whether contextual factors account for differences in the probability of transition to full-time employment between individuals with different characteristics. The results indicate that there is a contextual effect and that there are some spatial spill-over effects from neighbouring municipalities, and that the unemployment rate partly explains the context variability. Furthermore, the contextual effect is found to be especially large for individuals without a university degree. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
R59|Estimating the impact of Mexican drug cartels on crime|We estimate the impact of drug cartels and drug-related homicides on crime and security perceptions in Mexico. For this purpose, we combine surveys on crime victimization with indicators of where drug cartels operate with and without drug-related homicides. Using the difference-in-difference estimator, we find that people living in areas that experienced drug-related homicides are more likely to take extra precautions to guard their security, yet these areas also more likely to experience some crimes, particularly thefts and extortions. In contrast, these crimes and perceptions of unsafety do not change in areas where cartels operate without leading to drug-related homicides.
R59|The good, the bad and the ugly: The socio-economic impact of drug cartels and their violence in Mexico|This paper assesses the impact that drug cartels and their associated violence have had on development in Mexico. For this purpose, we monitor official and media reports to identify where cartels have operated with and without drug related homicides. Using the difference-in-difference kernel matching method, we find that on the one hand, inequality declined to a large extent in areas where cartels were active without incidents of drug related homicides. On the other, poverty increased in areas that had both the lowest and the highest rates of drug related homicides. Two reasons could explain this increase in poverty. In the most violent areas the number of employers and remunerations declined in key industries, such as manufacturing. In the least violent areas poverty increased possibly due to people migrating from the more violent places.
R59|The Tools of Metropolitan Unity in Turkey: A Holistic and Comparative Elaboration|Existing studies on Turkey usually fail to conceptualize the evolution of the regulations and efforts made for the administration and planning of the metropolitan regions in the country within a historical and comparative framework incorporating all forms of legal arrangements and tools pertaining to the very concept of establishment of metropolitan unity. Within this context, the aim of this study is to shed some light on the historical evolution of the problem of metropolitan unity in Turkey within a comparative and holistic perspective. For this purpose, in this paper, firstly early practices and attempts for the expansion of the administrative and planning boundaries of growing cities in the world will be reviewed together with the earlier considerations devoted to the delimitation of metropolitan regions. After elaborating the earlier attempts and considerations made for the establishment of the metropolitan municipalities and the delimitation of metropolitan regions with particular reference to the experience of the US whose metropolitan administration and planning model was dominant in Turkey in the 1980s, the tools employed for the establishment of metropolitan unity and the problems associated with the respective tools will be historically reviewed within a comparative perspective. Elaborating the tools employed for the establishment of metropolitan unity and the problems associated with the respective tools, all the efforts made and the tools employed in Turkey to secure metropolitan unity will be sketched by revealing the interconnections between the respective tools and efforts within a historical and evolutionary perspective. After examining the evolution and articulation of the tools employed for the establishment of regional unity required for the administration and planning of metropolitan regions and conurbations in Turkey, some concluding remarks will be drawn with reference to the overall framework constructed for the evolution of the tools used for the establishment of unity in metropolitan regions. What is particularly evident from this study is that pure legislative tools are not usually capable of securing metropolitan unity due to their lack of not only a communal point of view, but also a scientific point of view in the determination of the set of criteria that can be used in order to delimit metropolitan regions or secure regional integrity for a metropolitan area.
R59|Northern Investment Risks in Human Capital Formation: Russian Experience|Historically, the northern Russian regions have been an object of a special socio-economic policy, united by extreme climate conditions, geographical isolation and rich natural resources reserves. Northern investment risks in human capital formation are proposed in the paper, as an indicator of investment conditions, which can be employed to improve policy of human development in the northern regions of Russia. Northern investment risks encompass uncertainties associated with extreme northern climate conditions, historically determined allocation of resources in the Russian northern regions and restrictions on labour mobility caused by geographic isolation and administrative rules. Investment risks in human capital, its measurement, methods of estimation are considered. Empirical estimation illustrates higher investment risks in the northern regions. Method of estimation can be employed widely to compare investment conditions in imperfect economies. Policy of insurance of private investment risks and current restrictions on it's implementation in the northern regions of Russia are discussed.
R59|Governing development of regions- case of Slovakia|Dynamism of development and competiveness of regions, as spatially and administratively defined units, depend not only on their natural, economic, social, and territorial potential but also on quality of regional development governance. At the time of creation of the regional level of territorial management in Slovakia there was expected that by introducing this new governance level the regional governments would become strong players in the field of regional development policy and provide supra-local and sub-national public services more effectively and with better quality. The paper, in its first part, concentrates on critical assessment of the current position and performance of entrusted tasks of the regional self-governments after 12 years of their existence, particularly in terms of their real opportunities to influence integrated development of territories pursuing principles of 'good governance'. Emphasis is put on analysis of key determinants conditioning legitimacy and power of regional self-governments in the area of ensuring and coordinating regional development. Findings suggest that territorial and administrative definition of the Slovak regions for fulfilling their core mission is not optimal. Furthermore there are gaps in their competencies, financial strength, fiscal autonomy and quality of development processes. We can state that despite regional governments are responsible, pursuant to law, for the comprehensive integrative development of the region, their direct impact on economic, social and environmental development of their territories is relatively small. The current status is confronted with the focus of the European policy for the period 2014-2020 and the need to react also on this level on global challenges such as climate change, ageing, lack of renewable resources, opening disparity scissors between regions etc. The paper, in its second part, in order to achieve higher quality of governing regional development within existing legal, economic and institutional framework in Slovakia, presents the innovative model of good governance in conjunction with planning and implementation of development processes. Through the analysis of individual components of the model the set of recommendations has been elaborated with the aim of optimizing position of the regional self-government as the key actor in development of its territory having not only responsibility but also adequate conditions and tools. The paper is based on results of the three years research within the project Governance financed by the Norwegian financial mechanism.
R59|Na, altes Haus? - Stadt und Umland im Wandel. Planungs- und Entwicklungsinstrumente mit demografischer Chance. Konferenz der Hochschule Wismar am 14. Okt. 2013 in Schwerin|"[Vorwort zur Veröffentlichung] Die Fachtagung ""Na, altes Haus? Stadt und Umland im Wandel- Planungs- und Entwicklungsinstrumente mit demografischer Chance"" war eine Veranstaltung im Rahmen der Schweriner Wissenschaftswoche vom 21.-25.10.2013 statt. Das Motto der Schweriner Wissenschaftswoche orientiert sich jeweils am Wissenschaftsjahr des BMBF und stand daher unter der Gesamtüberschrift - Die Demografische Chance. Die Organisation der Fachtagung erfolgte federführend durch die Hochschule Wismar in Zusammenarbeit mit der Architektenkammer Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, der Ingenieurkammer Mecklenburg- Vorpommern, der Industrie- und Handelskammer zu Schwerin und der Handwerkskammer Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Veranstalter und Organisatoren der Schweriner Wissenschaftswoche sind ist ein festes Team, zu dem außerdem die Landeshauptstadt Schwerin, das Baltic College Schwerin, die Hochschule der Bundesagentur für Arbeit, Schwerin, die Hamburger Fern-Hochschule, Studienzentrum Schwerin und der Verein der Förderer der Hochschulen in Schwerin gehören. [...]"
R59|Performance assessment method of urban waste management systems from Neamț County, Romania|This paper proposes a performance assessment method (PAM) at urban scale, based on five specific waste indicators such as: population access to waste collection services (%),separate collection (%), reuse & recycle (%), landfilling (%) and amounts of waste uncollected (Qwu-%). Values of each indicator are correlated to an assessment table for three different years (2004, 2007, 2010) highlighting the disparities between urban localities from Neamt County. The paper also examines the changes and dysfunctions of urban waste management systems between pre-accession vs post-accession period. PAM should be a necessary tool for environmental authorities or decision-makers for monitoring process of municipal solid waste systems from various cities on regional scale particularly for new EU members.
R59|Yönetimden yönetişime geçiş sürecinde bölgesel politikalarda yaşanan değişim: Türkiye’de bölgesel Kalkınma Ajansları örneği|Kapitalizmin 1970’lerde yaşanan kriz süreci, Keynesgil politikaların sorgulanmasına, daha az devlet ve daha az müdahale söylemlerinin hakim olduğu neo liberal politikaların gündeme gelmesine yol açmıştır. Yaşanan değişim süreci kendisini üretim ve yönetim alanında da göstermiş, kitle üretiminin yerini esnek üretim, eskinin yönetim kavramının yerini ise yönetişim kavramı almıştır. Bu süreçte ulus devletin daha alt düzeylerle yetki paylaşımı ve farklı aktörlerin karar süreçlerine dahili bu politikaların hayata geçirilmesinde aracılık görevi üstlenecek yeni örgütsel düzenin gerekliliğini ortaya çıkarmıştır. Bu gereklilik, bölgesel düzeyde kalkınma ajansları olarak adlandırılan yapılanmaların ortaya çıkmasına yol açmıştır. Bu çalışmada, bölge kavramında yaşanan değişim, Türkiye’de kalkınma ajanslarının kurulum sürecinin incelenmesi ve kalkınma ajanslarının danışma organı niteliğindeki kalkınma kurulu üyelerinin kalkınma ajansları hakkındaki görüşlerini ortaya çıkaran bir anket çalışmasının analiz edilmesi amaçlanmaktadır.
R59|A diósgyőri kohászat barnamezős területének fejlesztési lehetőségei|A diósgyőri kohászat léte már a trianoni békeszerződés határmegvonásával megpecsételődött. A telepítés okai megszűntek, a gyár működése a kialakult geopolitikai és geográfiai viszonyok között hosszú távon nem volt fenntartható. A gyár gazdasági válságát a háborús időszak, majd a szovjet irányítás fedte el. Amint ezen tényezők megszűntek, a válság kezelhetetlenné vált. A nem megfelelő, és nem kellő mértékben alkalmazott válságkezelési technikák a kötelezően társuló társadalmi feszültségeket felerősítették, a környezetben is nyomot hagyva így egy társadalmilag és gazdaságilag meghatározóan deprivált területet jött létre. A diósgyőri kohászat 150 éves története koncentráltan jeleníti meg azokat a problémákat, amellyel ma a fejlesztő, válságkezelő településeknek, intézményeknek és a helyi társadalomnak szembe kell nézniük. A tanulmány arra tesz kísérletet, hogy megmutassa azokat a folyamatokat, amelyeken változtatva a fejlesztés pozitív irányba fordítható és bemutassa, hogy a megmaradt, rekultiválásra váró területet hogyan lehetne a ma szolgálatába állítani, és a jövőre nézve elfogadható alternatívát kialakítani.
R59|Current State and Issues of Logistics Cost Accounting and Management in Malaysia|Background: Logistics cost is an important factor affecting the competitiveness on both macro (national) and micro level (firms). Logistics cost indicates the performance of logistics industry, efficiency level and its competitiveness. Research Problem: Despite of its significance, current state of logistics cost accounting and management in Malaysia has not properly addressed and the issues surround logistics cost measurement remains incoherent. Aim of research: The purpose of this study is to give an overview of the current state and issues of logistics cost accounting and management in Malaysia. Research Method: This study used content analysis as a qualitative research tool, and supported by literature material with regards the concerned research tool. Findings: This study has found the importance of having standard logistics cost accounting measurement, which plays a vital role in determining the accuracy of the logistics cost and ascertain the efficiency level of logistics industry in Malaysia. Implication: This study leads to trigger the awareness of current state and issues of logistics cost accounting and management in Malaysia.
R59|From city marketing to museum marketing and opposed|European cities today need to confront the challenges of the current socio economic changes. In this framework the role of city marketing becomes essential especially during the socio economic crisis. City marketing is important because it is related to procedures connected with city global competition, tourist attraction, urban management, urban government and the special identity of cities (city branding). Many European cities take initiatives either creative or innovative to improve their competitiveness through cultural and tourism development/growth. Further, the majority of applied city marketing policies concern the culture and tourism. City marketing have encounter criticism like a)replace urban planning, b) emphasis on profit, c) emphasis on tourism attraction, d) regenerate socio geographical inequalities. In Greece only recently city marketing has been developed while even more new phenomenon is the process of field studies. The first case study is the Pilot Strategic Planning of City Marketing in Nea Ionia Magnisia which is part of the CultMark programme “Cultural heritage, local identity and place marketing for sustainable development” (contacted under INTERREG IIIc in five European locations during 2004-2006 (Nea Ionia, Magnisia (leader partner), UK, Kainou/Finland, Rostok-TLM/Germany and Pafos/Cyprus. Museums are one of the top/main categories of cultural locations which contribute to the cultural and tourism development of cities. Cities benefit from the existence of museums in specific ways but in order to work effectively it is necessary to be promoted in an organized way and with a strategic perspective which will be implemented by a Strategic Pilot Marketing Plan. A second case study is the unique Museum of Tobacco in Kavala, Greece. The scope of it is to show how the museum could contribute as a unique “tourism and cultural good/product to reinforce the city image and its development under a Strategic Marketing Plan for the city with main axe the Museum. This paper uses data from recent primary field studies contacted on enterprises, citizens of the city and visitors in order to form a strategic frame in which the (intrinsic) promotion of the Museum will work effectively on the general development of the Museum and the city of Kavala.
R59|Branding Stockholm|City branding is a relatively new topic gaining extreme interest and a promising and practical field of marketing. Due to global competition, even more regions and cities around the world, are seeking solutions in place branding’s methods and practices, which now consists a main urban development tool. Having a significant amount of information, the study will focus on the city of Stockholm. Being capital of Sweden and city with strong economic and political background, the case study will focus on the factors which contribute to an attractive external image. Studying its economic structure, business environment, educational system, how residents and foreigners see and respect the city, as well as the existing city branding methods, we will try to identify the way in which city will be attractive in tourists, investors and residents, as well as whether the city manages to fulfill its objectives about Vision 2030, targeting on a “World-Class city”.
R59|Performance assessment method of urban waste management systems from Neamț County, Romania|This paper proposes a performance assessment method (PAM) at urban scale, based on five specific waste indicators such as: population access to waste collection services (%), separate collection (%), reuse & recycle (%), landfilling (%) and amounts of waste uncollected (Qwu-%). Values of each indicator are correlated to an assessment table for three different years (2004, 2007, 2010) highlighting the disparities between urban localities from Neamt County. The paper also examines the changes and dysfunctions of urban waste management systems between pre-accession vs post-accession period. PAM should be a necessary tool for environmental authorities or decision-makers for monitoring process of municipal solid waste systems from various cities on regional scale particularly for new EU members.
R59|And now for something different: modelling socio-political landscapes|GIS technology has been used to build an e-research facility whereby it is possible to (a) investigate and visualise on-line spatial patterns of voter support for political parties at the local level of scale at federal elections in Australia, and (b) model the relationships between those voting data and variables derived from census data on the demographic and socio-economic characteristics of local populations. Using data on voting at the 2007 federal election and from the 2006 census, the paper shows that patterns of voter support for political parties have a distinct geography across Australia’s cities and regions. Spatial and statistical modelling is used to derive spatial typologies of voter support for political parties and to identify key demographic and socio-economic factors that discriminate voter support for political parties. Clear socio-political landscapes are evident. The position of political parties in a two-dimensional socio-political space has changed over the last three federal elections, the first two of which in 2001 and 2004 saw the Coalition Government returned with strong majorities, while the third election in 2007 saw a marked voter swing to oust the Coalition parties and put the Labor Party into government. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
R59|Child Poverty in a Regional Perspective: A Study of Sweden 1990 and 2010|When welfare is analysed in Sweden the analysis is usually made at the national level; when the analysis is not done on the national level, the local level is in focus to illuminate differences between municipalities. Studies on poverty are no exception. The regional level contains a lot of information which is needed to understand the dynamics of poverty. Without this information it is difficult to fight or mitigate poverty. The previous research focusing on i) regional aspects of poverty and, at the same time, ii) child poverty is very limited. The aim of this paper is to analyse child poverty in Sweden 1990 and 2010 in a regional perspective. A multivariate cross-section OLS regression model will be used to estimate what factors causing child poverty in a regional perspective. The chosen method enables to control for a subset of explanatory variables and examine the effect of a selected independent variable when estimating the factors causing child poverty in a regional perspective. This study uses data collected from Statistics Sweden (SCB), the National Board of Social Welfare (Socialstyrelsen) and the National Labour Market Board (Arbetsformedlingen). The data used is regional macro data, which does not contain information on single individuals. The regional share of children living on economic assistance in Sweden is used as the dependent variable while the regional share of foreign born population, regional unemployment rate, the regional share of single parents, regional sickness leave, regional mean personal income and mean regional transfers per person are used as independent variables. The findings indicate that old industrial regions experience a high presence of child poverty. These regions experience an obsolete economic structure and an obstructed structural change in the economy. High unemployment, a high share of early retirement and sickness leave and relatively high welfare transfers to the population. The statistical analysis show that when the share of foreign born increases in the regional population, so do the regional share of children living on economic assistance; being unable to enter the labour market is the most probable reason. Higher incomes lower the regional share of children living on economic assistance.
R59|Bureaucratic Appointments in Hybrid Regimes|Scholars associate bureaucratic quality with economic development. One particularly important component of a well-functioning bureaucracy is meritocratic promotion. This paper explores the conditions under which politicians will appoint high-level bureaucrats on the basis of economic performance. We argue that two key features of democracy - electoral competition and media freedom - increase the incidence of performance-based appointments among high-level bureaucrats. We test these claims using original data on turnover among 3762 vice governors in Russia’s 89 regions between 2001 and 2011. We also find that levels of bureaucratic turnover depend on the characteristics of the principal making those appointments.
R59|Tokyo’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme: A Model for Sustainable Megacity Carbon Markets?|Megacities already account for a major part of global energy-related CO2 emissions with a strong tendency to increase; hence, future climate policy has to put a special emphasis on reducing big cities’ energy consumption, especially in a world, where global climate negotiations are deadlocked. Tokyo, the world’s biggest metropolis and emitter of greenhouse gases roughly comparable to Scandinavian countries, started the world’s first megacity carbon market in 2010, the design of which is unique, due to its focus on end-energy use in buildings. While the program only started in 2010, the first results are now available. Hence, the paper answers the question to what extend Tokyo’s new carbon market can be considered a worthwhile model for other cities as well as an additional building-stone in a bottom-up global climate policy regime. By applying up-to-date sustainability economics reasoning, the paper evaluates the design and the recent results of Tokyo’s carbon market, showing that, while there is still room for improvements, Tokyo has the potential to be a world leader in sustainable local climate policy.
R59|Regional Disparities in Urban Population Access to Sanitation Services. Case Study: Romania|Sanitation services still not fully cover the urban population and this leads to different types of pollution and affects the urban landscape. This paper aims a geographical approach by highlighting territorial disparities in the Romanian counties regarding the urban population access to waste collection services and to examine the environmental issues. Statistical database processed by ascending hierarchical cluster analysis are mapped at the level of Romanian counties achieving a spatial-temporal analysis for the period 2003-2008. The paper also discuss about the current dysfunctions existing in urban waste management from Romania. Development of waste management facilities are in the process of transition from a traditional system based only on landfilling towards an integrated waste management system which develops the recycling and recovery of waste generated. Romania as an EU member country must improve the quality of sanitation services. Each city must provide the full collection of municipal waste generated in order to eliminate the illegal dumping.
R59|CREATIVE ECONOMY AND CREATIVE COMMUNITIES. Integration of THE URBAN DIMENSION into Governance Theory|The main paper’s objective is to highlight the necessity to implement the topic of creative economy in Romania, mostly regarding creative communities and urban economics & policies. The paper is aimed at describing the state of creative communities & creative cities in Romania. The term of creative communities is widely used in the context of the knowledge-based society & creative economy. Its importance to sustainable development, wealth and prosperity is recognised mostly due to the amplified crisis effects, context according to which the creative communities and the creative industries have moved to the mainstream. The special needs of creative communities - considered to be flexible communities, supporting intercultural dialogue (intercultural city communities) - are more and more reflected within policy development at micro, meso (regional) and macroeconomic levels. This paper will focus on the regional level, highlighting the importance of urban policies.
R59|Una aproximación a la relación entre desempeño macroeconómico colombiano y conflicto armado interno|El objetivo del presente trabajo es mostrar la relación entre desempeño macroeconómico colombiano y conflicto armado interno. En este sentido, los resultados obtenidos de los indicadores de seguridad y los índices económicos para el periodo 2000-2008, muestran una aproximación a una relación inversa entre estas variables. De esta forma, se genera una evidencia para las explicaciones teóricas sobre la relación entre variables económicas y conflicto.
R59|Can the economic impact of political decentralisation be measured?|This paper examines whether, given the increasing salience of subnational governments, political decentralisation has an impact on overall economic performance. It uses panel data analyses in order to determine the association between a number of the different indices of political decentralisation developed over the last decade and a half with two basic measures of economic performance: changes in aggregate GDP per head and the evolution of within country territorial inequalities. The results highlight that, in the case of economic growth, the perception we may have of how political decentralisation affects economic performance is highly contingent on the index we use, with results ranging from a mildly positive to a neutral influence of political decentralisation on economic growth. For regional inequalities, political decentralisation seems to lead to a rise in disparities, regardless of how political decentralisation is measured.
R59|Does the Impact of Oportunidades Program Increases in Highly Competitive Regions?|Evidence on Oportunidades, a successful anti-poverty program in Mexico, has suggested that changes to the current grant structure may induce considerable improvements to its effectiveness. Moreover, there are proposals addressing the importance of regional, observable and unobservable characteristics, regarding its implementation. It is employed competitiveness level outcomes to investigate if this social policy has heterogeneous performance in different regions of intervention. For this purpose, a Difference-in-Difference model is applied to estimate short and mid-term impacts on enrolment rates. Results indicate that the general competitiveness effect is positive but not robust, given the considerable level of aggregation of the data used, whereas if it is distinguised Oportunidades treatment by selected competitiveness outcomes, states with highly efficient government institutions, middle competitive economic sectors and middle inclusive, educated and healthy individuals, present a larger program impact on enrolment rates. It is confirmed the significant improvements to program effectiveness and the impact of the competitiveness variables when it is considered only a sample of older children.
R59|The Political Economy of Russian Gubernatorial Election and Appointment| Political and economic outcomes depend, in part, on the quality of the officials making policy. Some argue that free elections are the best method for selecting competent officials. Others argue that elections lead to the selection of amateurs and demagogues. We use original data on the biographies of Russian regional governors to examine the backgrounds of elected and appointed governors. Elected governors are more likely to be locals. Appointed governors are more likely to be federal bureaucrats or hold a graduate degree. We conclude the paper by speculating on other possible explanations for variation in governor background.
R59|Can the economic impact of political decentralisation be measured?|This paper examines whether, given the increasing salience of subnational governments, political decentralisation has an impact on overall economic performance. It uses panel data analyses in order to determine the association between a number of the different indices of political decentralisation developed over the last decade and a half with two basic measures of economic performance: changes in aggregate GDP per head and the evolution of within-country territorial inequalities. The results highlight that, in the case of economic growth, the perception we may have of how political decentralisation affects economic performance is highly contingent on the index we use, with results ranging from a mildly positive to a neutral influence of political decentralisation on economic growth. For regional inequalities, political decentralisation seems to lead to a rise in disparities, regardless of how political decentralisation is measured.
R59|European Union Membership Process of Turkey: Perspective of Rural Area (English version)|In the present research5, the knowledge level and the perceptions of rural society that would be affected from the EU membership in many ways, basically as the practitioners and beneficiaries, and constitute 30% of the population of the country are investigated. The standpoint of individuals living in rural areas, their expectations from membership and their opinions about the membership are analysed. The study encloses the results of questionnaires administered between the last quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 with 795 women and 795 men in 18 provinces. In the study 55% of the 1590 individuals surveyed know what the EU means and 67% of these individuals lean towards the membership. It is determined that the level of consciousness of men is higher than for women. The quality enhancement in agricultural production appears to be the most remarkable expectations of both women and men from the membership. Besides it is also determined that the expectations of better employment opportunities and the attainment of an increase in income are higher among women.
R59|Comparative Study on Male Vs Feminine Leadership in Public Administration in Maramures County, Romania|Leadership in the Romanian public administration is an exciting research area and also of current interest, while the success of public organizations depends now more on the human factor than on the funds becoming less accessible. Another item of interest is given by the low representation of women in managerial positions in administration. This paper presents a study on two mayors, a woman and a man of Maramures County, Romania, in order to identify and compare the leadership styles practiced. Belbin and Kilmann tests have revealed significant differences between leadership styles, which seem to favor women. Without claims of generalization, the study shows that female leadership in the administration is likely to produce success in achieving the objectives of the organization, which is an important argument against gender discrimination.
R59|The Best Anti-crisis Solutions. The Polish Lesson|The paper realises a comparative analysis between the Polish and the Romanian economies in order to find out the main elements which supported Poland to face successfully to the crisis. The analysis is based on the neutral statistical bases and covers the main economic indicators. A distinct part of the paper deals with the recovery governmental packages in the Polish and the Romanian economies and their viability. Important is the part connected to the relation of these two economies with the international financial institutes. The main lessons from Poland to Romania about the crisis management are: policy matters, macroeconomic disequilibrium at a minimal level and an optimal privatisation policy. The main conclusion of the paper is that the human society will be divided only into very rich or very poor people and both above economies are not able to stop this process.
R59|Urbanizaçâo, impactos ambientais e governança no complexo regional Centro-Sul|A palavra governança vem servindo para designar diferentes formas de governar, particularmente aquelas mais sensíveis às demandas da população e que estimulem a inserção dos movimentos sociais nos processos decisórios. No Brasil, “governança ambiental” é usado, em geral, para se referir a processos de exercício de poder que, na área do meio ambiente, estejam ampliando os espaços de participação dos diversos segmentos da sociedade civil organizada. Este artigo analisa aspectos da governança ambiental no contexto do complexo regional Centro-Sul a partir dos resultados obtidos em pesquisa do Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE). Examinou-se a relação porventura existente entre os problemas ambientais detectados e as medidas que, em nível local, vinham sendo tomadas pelo gestor. O estudo considerou duas faixas diferenciadas de urbanização dos municípios do Centro-Sul e, como indicadores clássicos, o IDH e o PIB. O objetivo foi identificar diferenças com relação à inserção da participação popular na gestão ambiental, mediante a análise de algumas variáveis específicas, como participação em Comitês de bacia, existência e composição do Conselho Municipal de Meio Ambiente e do Fórum da Agenda 21 local.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Vorwort des Herausgebers|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Opinion Dynamics and Learning in Social Networks|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|New Construction and Reconstruction: Impact on Growth of Sub-Regions of Mainland Portugal|Based on a panel made up of 28 sub-regions (NUT III) of mainland Portugal for the period 1995-2006, we show that building reconstruction has a positive impact on the economic growth of sub-regions of mainland Portugal, whereas the effect of new construction seems to be of negligible importance. The empirical evidence obtained in this study lets us make suggestions on urban policy for countries in general, and for Portugal in particular, namely to concentrate on reconstruction rather than new buildings.
R59|The LEADER programme 2007-2013: refocusing towards agriculture-oriented activities as a consequence of ‘mainstreaming’ innovative rural action in Austria| Since the on-going funding period 2007-2013 the former European Community Initiative Leader has become a constituent part of Rural Development Policies. Above all the mainstreaming of Leader into the Rural Development Programme (RDP) as axis 4 has both significantly changed the level of funding and the way in which Leader is executed in comparison with the previous period (2000-2006). This paper discusses the impact and consequences of this mainstreaming process by the Austrian example, mainly because there are clearly concerns that the EU-wide successful Leader formula of bottom-up rural development will be replaced by a pronounced top-down approach in the new programme.
R59|Evaluating the implementation process of LEADER in Romania| LEADER supports integrated rural regional development. The programme is characterized by a participatory and bottom-up approach, public-private partnerships, multi-sectoral regional development strategies and innovation. An obligatory Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (CMEF) was set up for evaluating EU interventions. The CMEF builds upon sets of common indicators and evaluation questions. Romania, where LEADER is currently introduced, has set national priorities for the programme implementation. For assessing the impact of LEADER in Romania meaningfully, an extension of the CMEF is needed. This paper, identifies and suggests appropriate indicators. Social Network Analysis is proposed as a tool for investigating intangible outcomes of LEADER in a quantitative way.
R59|La exclusión hidrológica|One settled down the validity and the trustworthiness of the instruments that measure variables of perceptions (indicated by utility expectations and risk around the extraction, storage, dosage, reusability or waste of water), valuing (indicated by the agreement or the discordance of principles of saving habits or water waste of the individual towards the culture) that determined direct, positively and significantly to the beliefs (indicated by the handling of information around the water distribution between the animal and vegetal species).
R59|The Social Impact of the Puritan Ethic on the American Mindset (English version)|Puritanism holds a special place in the historical formation of the American nation, due to the two opposite opinions regarding its impact upon the American culture and civilization. Thus, while some believe that what is wrong with America is that too much Puritanism survives to haunt and inhibit their country, others believe that the failures of their country result from the dilution of the Puritan discipline and ideas. This is why, we should point out that we have tried to give an objective analysis of the phenomenon, considering the different aspects under discussion in relation to the epoch they belonged to, and especially to the mentality of those times. Thus, we can conclude that although we do not have the three basic Puritan principles in their original form, we believe that method, discipline and order remain the guiding principles that rule the American society. So, they are still very present today but the final goal for which they are used is no longer self-control and hard-work in order to obtain redemption, but self-control and hard-work in order to become more successful and better one’s material condition and social position.
R59|Urban Development & Creative Communities As A Prerequisite For Tolerance And Intercultutal Dialogue|It is obviously that all over the world, mostly after 2000, a new approach for urban development and for regional development emerges. We choose Romania taking into account also the idea that it has old tradition in cooperation mostly within the areas near the borders where diversity and multicultural environment can allow more space for diversity management and for tolerance. One of the main challenges for the creative communities and for the creative industry sector and for those who engage within is how to encourage longer-term growth of these small lifestyle businesses. It seems that there is quite difficult to identifying creative workers due to their diversity (understood in a complex sense, in terms of cultural diversity that is more relevant for creative communities than ethnic, religion or other way to look traditionally for diversity).
R59|Cities in Germany and their climate commitments: More hype than substance?|While nation states debate climate policy at an international scale, on a local level, cities across the globe have committed to emission targets and mitigation activities. This study analyses the actual performance of municipal climate action against their targets. Official information material from large cities in Germany was collected and complemented with questionnaires from officials in 40 municipalities. While 77% of cities have adopted emission targets in a voluntary act, and 80% of these cities are engaged in at least basic emission reporting, only a quarter of them are on course to reach their targets. All of these ‘successful’ cities are situated in Eastern Germany – and their emission reductions can mainly be explained by the industrial decline in the 1990s after the German Reunification. Not a single city in Western Germany is on course to reach its reduction commitment. Cities average mitigation performance is slightly worse than the German average, and the effect of city networks on cities is not very clear. It can be concluded that cities are currently not living up to their ambitions. The practice of urban emission reporting does in many cases not allow for proper quality management of greenhouse gas policies. For a more meaningful contribution to the battle against climate change, cities could follow a double strategy: Firstly they could report emissions regularly and adopt realistic and city-specific targets and action plans based on their emission patterns. Secondly, they could complement their targets with a visionary approach: This would include pilot projects that demonstrate how low carbon cities could look like, as well as a more ambitious target which they would be able to reach – provided that optimal framework conditions for local mitigation activities would be put in place by other policy levels.
R59|Cross-border cooperation and its consequences: towards the territorial restructuring in Europe|One of the main characteristics of societies nowadays is that of experiences of cross-border cooperation. A string of events occurring in recent decades, which are associated with profound changes in today’s society, has favoured the spread and intensification of such cooperation especially active in the European Union venue. In this paper we propose to delve into the European cross-border experience and intend to extract from this some of the consequences and impact mainly related to new ways of thinking and organizing the European territory.
R59|From agriculture to rurality: New approaches in territorial economics|In the first part the paper presents the evolution of the rural develoment theories from 50s to nowadays. Consequently, in the second part, it is addressed the issue of how the transition from subsistance economy, to traditional economy, to agricultural economy, to rural economy could delineate virtuous processes of local development in specific contexts. This concept is futher developed in the third part, where territorial development is analysed in accordance with international studies, and more specifically with European ones, and in the forth where the topic is critically focused in the framework of the Brazilean literature.
R59|Chinese firms entering China's low-income market: Gaining competitive advantage by partnering governments|This paper investigates poverty alleviation efforts in China and the nature of governmententerprise partnerships there. We argue that firms partnering central and local governments can be an effective strategy to overcome resource-based obstacles in low-income markets. In China, local and central governments are owners of rare and valuable resources, thus offering better access to finance, infrastructure, technical and planning expertise, advocacy through government marketing and distribution channels, and links to other stakeholders. The findings are based on 16 case studies of firms entering the low-income market in China, of which two cases in the agricultural and telecommunication sector are studied in depth.
R59|Organized crime and regional development. A review of the Italian case|This paper offers a review of the effects of organized crime on regional economic development, with particular reference to the case of Italy. After reviewing the empirical studies that analyse the relationship between crime and economic development, the paper examines the regional distribution and the social costs of some crimes (in particular extortion) that can be linked to mafia type criminality.
R59|Marketing European cities in the new internationalized environment: The course of Prague after 1989|The aim of the article is to show the significance of Place Marketing in the development and competitiveness of European cities. The present study focuses on and points out the strategic process of Place marketing, in one of the most representative examples of its successful implementation, which is the city of Prague. Prague, which in only 16 years, after 1989, managed to increase its competitiveness becoming one of the most attractive investment and culture destinations on international level. More specifically, the article presents the course of Prague after 1989, awarding the profile of the city as a top competitive investment and cultural destination in the European hierarchical urban system.
R59|Creative Economy And Creative Cities|The paper sets out why creativity has become so important to urban and regional economics. It focuses on the role of creativity, creative industries, creative economy, creative class and creative cities for the modern urban economics. It points out the idea that the power of the future economy lays within the development of the creative city. The aim of a creative city is to make us to think of our city as a living work of art, where citizens can involve and engage themselves in the creation of a transformed place. Every city can be more creative that it currently is and the task for the city wanting to be creative is to identify, nurture, harness, promote, attract, and sustain talent and to mobilize ideas, resources and organizations.
R59|Yardstick competition in German municipalities|Does increasing transparency improve fiscal policy behavior of local governments? One way this could take place is via Yardstick Competition between incumbents of neighboring municipalities. This paper contributes to the literature by introducing a simple model which employs probabilistic voting to show the effect of Yardstick Competition on the amount of political rents diverted from the tax revenue. Since additional rents lower the probability of being reelected, the incumbent will reduce equilibrium rents if voters use information on fiscal performance in similar municipalities to evaluate the incumbent's quality. I test this hypothesis on a panel dataset of municipal budget and electoral data in the german state of Northrine-Westphalia. I show evidence for Yardstick Competition in the local business and property tax rates.
R59|On the incentives to experiment in federations|Conventional wisdom has it that policy innovation is better promoted in a federal rather than in a unitary system. Recent research, however, has provided theoretical evidence to the contrary: a multi-jurisdictional system is characterized - due to the existence of a horizontal information externality - by under-provision of policy innovation. This paper presents a simple model that introduces political competition for federal office. Under such competition political actors use the innovative policies in order to signal ability to the electorate. In the equilibrium analyzed policy innovation may occur more frequently than in a unitary system. It is thus shown that, once electoral motives are accounted for, the conventional wisdom is likely to be a valid proposition.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R59|Los procesos participativos en la sostenibilidad medioambiental. El caso del segmento turístico recreativo de Alta Montaña|High mountain tourism poses a dilemma for an increasing number of those concerned due to the conflict between recreational enjoyment of the area, its economic exploitation and conservation of the fragile areas that will inevitably be affected by it. This is a particularly important issue in the Pyrenees mountains. This paper looks at the impact on the environment of High Mountain Recreational Tourism Centres (CTRAM) and the concept of sustainability. We propose ways to improve the situation, describing the nature of the relationships between the different stakeholders and their differing degrees of bargaining power when taking decisions regarding the creation of sustainable value. Within this context, participation through Social Economy has a significant role, as it encourages and increases the involvement of the local population and different agents in the process.
R59|Standort Berlin-Adlershof: kräftige Impulse für die Stadt|Im Entwicklungsgebiet Berlin-Adlershof ist das größte Technologie- und Wissenschaftscluster Deutschlands mit rund 750 Unternehmen und über 12 500 Beschäftigten entstanden. Davon gehen spürbare wirtschaftliche Impulse für die Stadt aus. Die ökonomischen Effekte lassen sich für das Jahr 2006 auf eine zusätzliche Bruttowertschöpfung von einer Milliarde Euro und rund 21 000 Arbeitsplätze quantifizieren. Dem standen im Jahr 2006 öffentliche Fördermittel in Höhe von 78,8 Millionen Euro gegenüber, wovon 54 Millionen Euro an die wissenschaftlichen Institute gingen. Die an die Unternehmen im Wissenschafts- und Technologiepark ausgereichten Fördermittel in Höhe von 20,5 Millionen Euro betragen nur noch fünf Prozent der Umsätze. Die beständig steigende Zahl der Unternehmen im Wissenschafts- und Technologiepark bei tendenziell sinkenden Fördermitteln lässt erwarten, dass sich die hohe Dynamik im Entwicklungsgebiet Adlershof fortsetzt.
R59|Socioeconomic, Institutional & Political Determinants Of Human Rights Abuses: A Subnational Study Of India, 1993 – 2002|We conduct an econometric analysis of socioeconomic, institutional and political factors determining government respect for human rights within India. Using time series cross-sectional data for 28 Indian states for the period 1993 – 2002, we find that internal threat poised by number of social violence events, presence of civil war and riot hit disturbed areas are strongly associated with human rights abuses. Amongst socioeconomic factors, ‘exclusive’ economic growth, ‘uneven’ development, poor social development spending, youth bulges and differential growth rates between minority religious groups explain the likelihood of human rights violations. Capturing power at the state and central level by Hindu national parties’ viz., Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena, further help understand the incidence of human rights violations within India.
R59|Organized Crime and Foreign Direct Investment: the Italian Case|"The paper estimates the effects of organized crime on FDI inflows in 103 Italian provinces in the period 2004-06. The presence of organized crime at a provincial level is quantified through several indicators, based on data for different kinds of crimes: extortion; association for criminal purposes, including mafia (Art. 416 and 416 bis of the Italian Penal Code); attacks; arson. Several control variables are used, included a proxy for (financial) investment incentives provided by public sectors. Estimation suggests that FDI inflows are influenced by different variables. Our results show that the extent of extortion and the number of persons denounced for ""criminal association"" are significantly and negatively correlated with FDI inflows. Finally, our analysis suggests the presence of organized crime is a strong disincentive for foreign investors, particularly in the less developed Italian provinces."
R59|Automatic selection of indicators in a fully saturated regression|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Automatic selection of indicators in a fully saturated regression|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|The role of urban indicators in city management: a proposal for Croatian cities|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|A Charactherization Of Portuguese Sme Comparing European Union - Case Study About Setúbal Region| Considering the European Union definition for Small and Medium Enterprises and their importance in EU economy we refer the most relevant matters of this kind of companies in the European development. Next step broaches the importance of Portuguese SME for the domestic economy, referring their social and economic role, as well its weight in Gross Domestic Product and employment. The main goal of this study is to characterize Setúbal region concerning its small and medium enterprises (SME) comparing its performance indicators with the reference indicators of EU’s SME. The higher education institution where we are lecturing stays in Setúbal. Most of our students come from this region, so we thought it would be interesting to analyse an important stakeholder cluster of our community – the SME. We work with a significant sample of regional SME trying also to understand if there are activity sectors or companies’ characteristics we can refer as relevant for regional development.
R59|European cities in the process of economic integration: towards structural convergence|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|European cities in the process of economic integration: towards structural convergence|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|The effects of fiscal equalisation in a model with endogenous regional governments: an analysis in a two-region numerical model|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Voting Patterns, Party Spending and Space in England and Wales|There is a growing body of literature which suggests that voting patterns are not independent from space yet few empirical investigations exist which take explicit account of space. This article examines the determinants of voting patterns across constituencies in England and Wales using spatial econometric methods. The results suggest that while socioeconomic factors are key determinants of party vote shares in constituencies, there is strong spatial autocorrelation in voting patterns. We find that each major political party is influenced by space to different extents with the Liberal Democrats visibly exploiting spatial autocorrelation to increase their vote shares.
R59|Rational Entrepreneurship in Local China: Exit Plus Voice for Preferential Tax Treatments|Bearing the legacy from central-planned system, the tax system in local China still lacks transparency and, in many cases, the liabilities of firms, especially those with extensive influences, are subject to negotiation despite the new tax-reform 1994. Applying Hirschman’s Exit-Voice theory, we construct a game model of interplay between firm and local government, in terms of exit and voice for preferential tax treatments, thereby revealing dynamics of these two options under rational entrepreneurship of economizing transaction cost. Suggested by the model, exit not only induces firm to opt for voice, it also underpins firm’s voice that forces local government to compromise. Particularly, when holding private information of exit cost, firm is able to mimic behaviors of those with high mobility so as to boost the effectiveness of voice. The empirical cases fully illustrate such rational entrepreneurship of exit plus voice to profit from local preferential policy.
R59|Salvador Allende en la Perspectiva Histórica del Movimiento Popular Chileno|"Not aside the discussion on the compatibleness between the up-to-date and the objectiveness, arguments are brought on support of three hypotheses: (1) from the middle of 1930 decade unless his death in 1973, Salvador Allende embodies the best the historical continuity and the Popular movement development axis, (2) Salvador Allende embodied the unfinished dialectics between reform versus revolution, (3) In the history of popular movement, 1973 coup d'état means a total crash; a ""broken bridge"" still not restored."
R59|La problemática de un territorio estratégico|"Book review of Pereira Pinto, P. A. (2005): ""Taiwan - um futuro formoso para a ilha?"", UFRGS, Porto Alegre"
R59|Urban Economic Development and Restorative Justice: Exploring the Relationship Between Creativity and Crime Control|This article examines the relationship between local economic development and a new approach to the problem of crime–i.e., ‘restorative justice.’ The latter concept is introduced and briefly explored, followed by a short review of Richard Florida's recently proposed theory of creative-class economic development. Against the backdrop of these theoretical innovations, an empirical question that arises is whether the specific character of creative-class economic growth enhances the probability that a given city will adopt a restorative justice paradigm in its efforts to reduce crime. Addressing this question using logistic regression analysis, the article provides preliminary evidence that creative-class economic development encourages experimentation with innovative approaches to social problems such as crime. Copyright IAES 2006
R59|Efficacy of European Policies on Rural Landscape: the Case Study of Sardinia (ITALY)|" Over the last decades, a large number of developed countries have explicitly recognized the importance of benefits generated from agricultural and rural landscape into their legislation. Since the early '90, preservation and enhancing of rural landscape has played an increasing role also into the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) promoted by the European Union (EU). More generally, the whole European rural development policy seems to recognize an important role to the keeping of agricultural and rural landscape. The present work is a part of a wider research aimed to identify rational instruments for guidance policies on rural landscape. The specific purpose of this paper is to evaluate efficacy of Sardinian (Italy) regional policies on rural landscape. In particular, the analysis aims to assess ""functionality"" of policies on rural landscape in programming policy. Results arisen from analysis of Rural Development of this first evaluation are controversial."
R59|Corporate Policy in Mexico During the Porfirian Age. The Telephone Companies, 1881-1905|In Mexico City, in the heyday of the Porfirio Díaz’s regime (1877-1911), a telephone system was developed by a private carrier, whose parent company was American Bell Telephone Company, which grew into a privately owned monopoly that served a clientele made up mostly of businessmen and government institutions. This essay tries to explain the company’s corporate policies to grow and profit in this incipient market, as well of the municipal council to regulate its operations till 1903, when its administrative powers were taken away by the federal government.
R59|The effects of scientific regional opportunities in science-technology flows: Evidence from scientific literature in firms patent data|Relevant scientific literature has demonstrated that in spaces of smaller scale than the national, the availability of scientific knowledge is also relevant for generating spillover effects that benefit the industrial sector. The proliferation of such literature consistently stressing the importance of physical proximity for the two-way flow of knowledge and for the development and fostering of innovation, together with the high degree of self-government of the Spanish regions (which have the competence to develop their own R&D policies), all suggest that the relationships between the scientific community and the industrial sector may be closer and more productive in the regions where the scientific potential is more relevant, in comparison with other regions. The basic objective of this article is to test for the possible differential effects of a favourable scientific environment on science-technology relationships, and more specifically, to determine if the considerable regional resources directed towards scientific research in local universities are being translated into economic results for industry, by way of better utilisation of scientific knowledge to enable companies to generate more and better innovations in processes and products. The methodology that we employ relates the scientific citations in patent documents - as a basic indicator of these science-technology flows- with various indicators of resources and results of academic research that reflect the scientific research environment. With caution, and recognising the limitations inherent in the NPC (non patent citation) methodology, different econometric specifications permit the conclusion to be drawn that companies of those regions with a more favourable scientific environment make greater use of scientific knowledge. JEL Classification: O31, O38, C21, R59.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
R59|Policy Innovation In Federal Systems|Conventional wisdom has it that policy innovation is better promoted in a federal rather than in a unitary system. Recent research, however, has provided theoretical evidence to the contrary: a multi-jurisdictional system is characterized---due to the existence of a horizontal information externality---by under-provision of policy innovation. This paper presents a simple model that introduces political competition for federal office. Under such competition political actors use the innovative policies in order to signal ability to the electorate. In the equilibrium analyzed policy innovation occurs more frequently than in a unitary system. It is thus shown that, once electoral motives are accounted for, the conventional wisdom is validated.
R59|Quality Investment and Price Formation in the Performing Arts Sector: A Spatial Analysis|In this paper, we present a spatial model of the public provision of the performing arts. Agents behave boundedly rational. Art directors set performance quality according to their aspiration levels. While taking into account the spatial distribution of the population, administrative directors in calculating ticket prices ignore that they compete with neighboring performing arts organization (PAOs) for audience. The model is tested empirically using a spatial autoregressive (SAR) model with a complete data set of German PAOs and cities. Our data support the model and help to explain the size and distribution of losses in the public performing arts sector.
R59|Agglomeration, Integration, and Territorial Authority Scale in a System of Trading Cities. Centralisation versus Devolution|This paper emphasises the importance of the political-institutional dimension in the understanding of the spatial distribution of economic activity. We introduce the notion of Territorial Authority Scale, which refers to the degree of devolution (towards sub-national tiers of government) involved in the authority to decide on Spatial Policy, and propose a model of 'agglomeration in a system of cities' in which both intra-city trade and inter-city trade are considered. Enriching both the literature on integration/agglomeration and that on city size and formation, we show that: i) devolution results in over-agglomeration (fewer cities, which tend to be over-sized) and low welfare; ii) the higher the level of spatial (i.e. transport costs) and economic (i.e. intensity of trade) integration, the higher is the magnitude of the inefficiency. From a theoretical point of view, the paper represents an attempt to import, into geographical economics, a 'scale approach', which is an established approach to the notion of space in sociology.
R59|A pratical optimal quarantine measure|Quarantine programs have generally provided an essential protection against the importation of exotic diseases, thus protecting both consumers and producers from major health concerns and pests and diseases that can potentially destroy local agricultural production. However, quarantine measures also impose costs in the form of expenditures on the quarantine program itself and the welfare losses that are associated with such trade restrictions. This paper develops a simple model to determine the optimal level of quarantine activity for imported livestock by minimizing the present-value of the direct costs of the disease, the cost of the quarantine program and any resulting welfare losses. The result defines a practical measure for the optimal number of infected livestock that may potentially enter a region in a given year. The model is then applied to the case of Ovine Johne’s Disease and its potential entry to the sheep industry in Western Australia. All key parameter values are subject to random variation and the optimal solution and sensitivity measures are obtained with a genetic algorithm.
R59|How to understand, and deal with dictatorship: an economist's view|This paper explains in simple English some of the main ideas about autocracy first developed elsewhere (e.g., in my book, The Political Economy of Dictatorship (Cambridge University Press, 1998). I use rational choice theory to explain the behavior of dictatorships and develop policy toward them. Issues discussed in this paper include: How do successful regimes stay in power? What determines the repressiveness of a regime? Which type of regime redistributes more, dictatorship or democracy? Can dictatorships be good for economic growth and efficiency? The starting point of my analysis is The Dictator's Dilemma-the insecurity every dictator necessarily experiences about how much support he really has. Because of this, the dictator finds that the tool of repression is not enough to maintain his regime, and successful dictators typically rule with the loyal support of at least some groups of subjects (while repressing others). The levels of repression and support and the nature of the groups that give their support (labor, business, ethnic group, etc.) determine the character of the dictatorship. Among other results discussed, I show that some types of dictators – tinpots and timocrats – respond to an improvement in economic performance by lowering repression, while others – totalitarians and tyrants – respond by raising it. Finally I discuss optimal policy by the democracies toward dictatorships and I show that a single standard-aid or trade with a progressively tightening human rights constraint- is desirable if aid or trade with dictatorships of any type is to lower, not raise, repression. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2001
R59|How to understand, and deal with dictatorship: an economist's view|This paper explains in simple English some of the main ideas about autocracy first developed elsewhere (e.g., in my book, The Political Economy of Dictatorship (Cambridge University Press, 1998). I use rational choice theory to explain the behavior of dictatorships and develop policy toward them. Issues discussed in this paper include: How do successful regimes stay in power? What determines the repressiveness of a regime? Which type of regime redistributes more, dictatorship or democracy? Can dictatorships be good for economic growth and efficiency? The starting point of my analysis is The Dictator's Dilemma-the insecurity every dictator necessarily experiences about how much support he really has. Because of this, the dictator finds that the tool of repression is not enough to maintain his regime, and successful dictators typically rule with the loyal support of at least some groups of subjects (while repressing others). The levels of repression and support and the nature of the groups that give their support (labor, business, ethnic group, etc.) determine the character of the dictatorship. Among other results discussed, I show that some types of dictators – tinpots and timocrats – respond to an improvement in economic performance by lowering repression, while others – totalitarians and tyrants – respond by raising it. Finally I discuss optimal policy by the democracies toward dictatorships and I show that a single standard-aid or trade with a progressively tightening human rights constraint- is desirable if aid or trade with dictatorships of any type is to lower, not raise, repression. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2001
R59|La organización económica de las ciudades: una perspectiva institucional|The purpose of this article is to evaluate the explanatory power of neo-institutional theories for the economic organisation and disorganisation of cities, and to suggest institutional alternatives for these theories. First, major contemporary developments in the economic organisation of cities are summarised, paying special attention to the rise of professional services, the information city, the transaction city, the city as a knowledge-base for innovative manufacturing and services activities, the network city and urban networks. The main theories are examined and some indications are provided on how the neo-institutional analysis of the urban economic system can be improved, concretely by use of evolutionist economic as well as regulationist theory. The authors conclude that a more comprehensive analysis of the urban economy, based on a broader reading of institutional dynamics and economic processes, would make it possible to establish links with social and political dynamics in the city in a non-reductionist way.
R59|Continuidad y cambio en la revitalización del Bilbao metropolitano|Over the last two decades, metropolitan areas have been at the center of widespread reorganization. For some cities, the crisis of Fordism and the transition towards a so-called new regime of flexible accumulation have brought about systematic divestment in manufacturing activities, plant closures, environmental degradation, massive unemployment and rising poverty and marginality. The dynamics of productive reorganization, however, has not been the only factor shaping the fortunes of cities and regions; the specific character of national, regional and local state responses to the imperatives of structural change has also played a critical part. From this perspective, the innovation and reformulation of territorial policies, since the mid 1980, constitute a fundamental factor in understanding the strategies and possibilities for revitalisation in these areas. Against this background, this paper aims to explain recent trends in urban policy making in metropolitan Bilbao, one of the main industrial centers of Spain and also one of the most severely affected by manufacturing decline. It shows how critical policy innovations in urban planning developed over the last decade run parallel to dominant approaches in planning in other advanced industrial countries.
R59|Analyse economique et sociale du pays d'Apt|Ce document presente une analyse economique et sociale du pays d'Apt, region situee au coeur du Luberon, dans le departement de Vaucluse.
R59|"""Gentrification"", incendies criminels dans trois quartiers de Montreal"|"Le processus de ""gentrification""que traversent les arrondissements Plateau Mont-Royal-Centre Sud et Sud-Ouest, ainsi que la ville de Verdun s'accompagne d'une hausse des incendies, en particulier des incendies criminels. Les programmes publics qui favorisesnt le renouveau urbain dans certains secteurs de Montreal doivent, de meme que les compagnies d'assurance, tenir compte de ce phenomene."
R59|Demographic Foundations of Political Empowerment in Mulriminority Cities|"We exemine two potential modes of local empowerment: ""dominance, "" whereby each group is the majoriy of voters in single election districts ( reinforcing separative tendencies) , and ""influence"" whereby a group gains ""influential minority"" status in several districts ( reinforcing unifying tendencies)."
R59|Regional Development, Capital Flows and Trade Policies in an Aging Europe|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Historical Path-Dependence of the Urban Population Density Gradient|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Historical Path-Dependence of the Urban Population Density Gradient|No abstract is available for this item.
R59|Interstate Migration and the Tiebout Hypothesis: An Analysis According to Race, Sex, and Age|This article empirically examines the impact on interstate net migration of differential state and local property tax and transfer policies in the United States by race, age and sex for the period 1965-70. The results offer considerable support to the Tiebout hypothesis that the consumer-voter moves to that area which best satisfies his preferences for public goods.
R59|Some Determinants of Interstate Migration of Blacks, 1965-1970|The results of this study for the 50 states imply that considerations of distance play an important role in the migration decision of blacks, with the distance variable being statistically significant at the five percent level or better in 80 percent of the cases. The racial composition variable was statistically significant at the one percent level in 97 percent of the cases. This would seem to imply, as hypothesized in Section II above, that black mi­grants tend to move to those areas where the ratio of blacks to total population is higher, ceteris paribus. The income variable was statistically significant at the five per cent level or better in only 25 percent of the cases and at the ten percent level or better in only 49 percent of the cases. This apparent insensitivity of migration to income has been found in other studies and has been shown to be entirely compatible with the conventional wage rat e analysis. Finally, we turn to the welfare variable. This is a variable is ignored in migration studies to date, but this may be an important oversight. In particular, analysis shows that the welfare variable was statistically significant at the five per cent level or better in 48 percent of the 50 cases. Thus, we infer that welfare-as one specific form of income-may be a very important determinant of black migration and perhaps may be more important than even per capita personal black income in influencing the migration decision of blacks
