Y10|Interpolation of Japan's Household Consumption during World War II|This paper reconstructs a comparable series of Japan's household consumption in the 1940s, using historical records about household outlays and black-market transactions, and interpolating missing values in the existing statistics. Specifically, nominal outlays of urban and farm households are estimated, and then converted into real outlays by effective price indexes containing black-market transactions. Household outlay per capita is then computed by taking the average of urban and farm household outlays using population shares as weights. Real outlay in 1945 is estimated at a little less than 50 percent compared to that in 1940, although statistics are missing for 1945. Even considering alternative estimates using other records, real outlay in 1945 is a little more than 50 percent compared to that in 1940. Thus, it is concluded that Japan's household consumption in 1945 declined to the level in 1875-1880.
Y10|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
Y10|Using App Inventor to provide the one-way ANOVA table with blocks|The one-way ANOVA table is used to test whether the factor has some influence on the experimental result or not. The factor has at least two levels, and some uncontrollable block usually appears in the experiment. An engineering calculator can help computing different sum of squares, but the ANOVA table must be written or typed in somewhere else. By the way, a smart phone is more convenient than a calculator or a tablet. Rather than the traditional spreadsheet, the free MIT App Inventor is applied to create the one-way ANOVA table with blocks in the mobile computing environment in this paper.
Y10|Existenzgründungen von Frauen: Aktuelle Entwicklungen|Frauen sind seit jeher im Gründungsgeschehen in Deutschland unterrepräsentiert. Diese Unterrepräsentanz hat sich in jüngerer Vergangenheit wieder verstärkt. Analysen auf Basis der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik zeigen, dass dies zum einen darauf zurückzuführen ist, dass die Gründungsneigung von Frauen noch stärker als die der Männer zurückgegangen ist. Zum anderen trägt ein weit überdurchschnittliches Ausmaß an Gründungsaktivitäten von Männern aus den EU-8- und EU-2-Beitrittsstaaten, mit dem ihre Landsfrauen nicht mithalten können, dazu bei. Die von Frauen gegründeten Unternehmen weisen teilweise andere Branchenschwerpunkte als die von Männern gegründeten auf. Sie sind zumeist im Dienstleistungssektor angesiedelt. Im Bereich der freiberuflichen Gründungen sind Frauen sogar leicht überrepräsentiert. Qualitative Unterschiede im Hinblick auf Größe und Innovationspotenzial bestehen zwischen von Frauen und Männern gegründeten gewerblichen Einzelunternehmen kaum (mehr).
Y10|The KOF Globalisation Index – revisited|Abstract We introduce the revised version of the KOF Globalisation Index, a composite index measuring globalization for every country in the world along the economic, social and political dimension. The original index was introduced by Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091–1110, 2006) and updated in Dreher et al. (2008). This second revision of the index distinguishes between de facto and de jure measures along the different dimensions of globalization. We also disentangle trade and financial globalization within the economic dimension of globalization and use time-varying weighting of the variables. The new index is based on 43 instead of 23 variables in the previous version. Following Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091–1110, 2006), we use the new index to examine the effect of globalization on economic growth. The results suggest that de facto and de jure globalization influence economic growth differently. Future research should use the new KOF Globalisation Index to re-examine other important consequences of globalization and why globalization was proceeding rapidly in some countries, such as South Korea, but less so in others. The KOF Globalisation Index can be downloaded from http://www.kof.ethz.ch/globalisation/ .
Y10|Household Collective Models: Three Decades of Theoretical Contributions and Empirical Evidence|Household collective models celebrate their thirtieth birthday. The collective approach constitutes, perhaps, the microeconomics topic that has produced the largest number of papers (both published and in working paper/mimeo formats) during the last three decades, beginning with the seminal paper published by P.A. Chiappori in Econometrica (Chiappori, 1988). To add to some excellent surveys of household collective models (Strauss et al., 2000; Vermeulen, 2002; Donni and Chiappori, 2011; Chiappori and Mazzocco, 2017), we here perform a bibliographic review of the literature, which includes theoretical contributions, as well as the international empirical evidence related to the collective approach. With respect to the theoretical papers, the collective framework has been used to provide theoretical results for a number of household issues; for example, labour supply, consumption and savings, household production, and intra-household allocation. As for the empirical papers, the international evidence covers the majority of developed and developing countries from all continents.
Y10|The KOF Globalisation Index â€“ Revisited|In this paper we present and describe the revised version of the KOF Globalisation Index, a composite index measuring globalisation for every country in the world along the economic, social and political dimension. The original index was introduced by Dreher (2006) and updated in Dreher et al. (2008). This second revision of the index introduces the differentiation between de facto and de jure measures along the different dimensions of globalisation, the differentiation between trade and financial globalisation within the economic dimension of globalisation and time-varying weighting of the variables entering the index. Finally, the revised version incorporates several additional variables in the construction process. At the aggregate level, we show that a bidirectional relationship between de facto and de jure globalisation exists.
Y10|Grading Journals in Economics: The ABCs of the ABDC|The Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC) have graded journals in the fields of Economics and Statistics to evaluate the quality of research. This paper examines the consistency of these grades with 44 bibliometric indicators of journal quality and measures of interrater agreement. First, we categorise the bibliometrics employing a unique cluster analysis based on an interrater agreement statistic. Then, we determine which journals have been assigned ABDC grades that do not reflect the rank of the bibliometrics. These cases provide an indication of the extent to which the ABDC journal grades are determined by non-bibliometric factors.
Y10|How Much Wine Is Really Produced and Consumed in China, Hong Kong, and Japan?|Statistics on the wine market in countries where it is not traditionally produced or consumed are estimates using simple methods. In northeast Asia those statistics are exaggerated for a combination of several reasons. One is a labelling issue: imported bulk wine is able to be added to domestically produced wine without the front label having to declare the bottle may contain foreign product. Similar freedom applies to wine made from imported grape juice concentrate. A second (particularly in China) is a double-counting issue: domestic wine produced in one region of the country may be blended with wine produced in and packaged for final sale from another region, with both regions claiming it as their contribution to national wine output. A third possibility is a smuggling issue: some wine imports are unrecorded. These possibilities of the wine market being exaggerated are significant for firms seeking to sell in such countries, especially in the fast-growing ones of northeast Asia. This paper shows the extent to which estimates for the region could change for such indicators as per capita wine consumption, wine self-sufficiency and the region’s share of global wine consumption, when alternative assumptions are made in response to these issues.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Y10|Voting in the Goods and Service Tax Council of India|In 2017, India enacted a new taxation law called the Goods and Services Tax (GST). This law created a GST Council with representatives of the Union government and the Provincial governments. The decision making procedure in the GST Council is specified to be by weighted voting. This work performs a detailed study of such a mechanism using the framework of formal voting games. On a theoretical note, we introduce several new notions regarding blocking dynamics of voting games. These are then applied to the study of voting in the GST context. We identify a set of basic desiderata and propose some modifications to the voting rule in the GST Act.
Y10|Basic Stata graphics for economics students|This paper provides an introduction to the main types of graph in Stata that economics students might need. It covers univariate discrete and continuous variables, bivariate distributions, some simple time plots and methods of visualising the output from estimating models. It shows a small number of the many options available and includes references to further resources.
Y10|Basic Stata Graphics for Economics Students|This paper provides an introduction to the main types of graph in Stata that economics students might need. It covers univariate discrete and continuous variables, bivariate distributions, some simple time plots and methods of visualising the output from estimating models. It shows a small number of the many options available and includes references to further resources.
Y10|Existenzgründungen von ausländischen Staatsbürgern: Aktualisierung 2018|Ausländer haben das Existenzgründungsgeschehen in den Jahren 2007 bis 2016 sowohl in Deutschland als auch Nordrhein-Westfalen in erheblichem Maße mitgeprägt. Eine besonders große Rolle haben ausländische Gründer im gewerblichen Bereich gespielt. Differenzierende Analysen auf Basis der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik zeigen, dass der Gründungsboom unter den Ausländern ausschließlich auf die Bürger der ost- und mitteleuropäischen EUBeitrittsstaaten von 2004 und 2007 zurückging. Unter den übrigen Ausländern war im betrachteten Zeitraum ebenso wie unter den Deutschen ein Rückgang bei den gewerblichen Gründungen zu beobachten. Die Gründungen von Ausländern weisen teils andere Tätigkeitsschwerpunkte und eine im Durchschnitt geringere wirtschaftliche Substanz auf als die der deutschen Gründer. Diese Unterschiede sind wiederum zu einem großen Teil auf die Bürger der genannten EU-Beitrittsstaaten zurückzuführen, deren Anteil am gewerblichen Gründungsgeschehen seit 2014 aber rückläufig ist.
Y10|Regionale Analyse des Gründungsgeschehens in Nordrhein-Westfalen - 2015 bis 2017|Das IfM Bonn hat mittels Sonderauswertungen der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik und Angaben der Finanzverwaltungen das Gründungsgeschehen in den Wirtschaftsregionen Nordrhein-Westfalens analysiert. Dabei zeigen sich zum Teil erhebliche Unterschiede zwischen den Regionen, z.B. in der Existenzgründungsintensität, der Entwicklung im Zeitverlauf und der Bedeutung bestimmter Tätigkeitsbereiche. Eine hohe Gründungsintensität weisen die Regio-nen Düsseldorf/Kreis Mettmann und Köln-Bonn auf, sowohl im Bereich der gewerblichen als auch der freiberuflichen Gründungen. Gründungsschwach in diesem Sinne sind die Regionen Südwestfalen, Ostwestfalen-Lippe und das Münsterland.
Y10|Veintitrés años, mil documentos:caracterización, visibilidad e impacto de los Borradores de Economía|Los Borradores de Economía llegan, con este documento, a su número mil. Veintitrés años después de su inicio, la serie ha servido para incentivar la investigación en el interior del Banco de la República y como mecanismo de difusión de la misma. Por este motivo, hemos preparado este trabajo para rememorar el origen de la serie y presentar algunas estadísticas describiendo la misma en términos de su impacto, visibilidad y algunas características de sus autores, entre otros aspectos.
Y10|Watching India's Insolvency Reforms: A New Dataset of Insolvency Cases|This paper introduces a new dataset of orders passed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the insolvency cases under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code or IBC. It builds this dataset to attempt an empirical analysis of the economic effect of the IBC and the performance of the judiciary under the IBC. There are 23 fields of information recorded in the dataset for each case. It analyses orders passed during the first six months of operationalisation of the provisions of the IBC to answer questions such as who are the initial users of the insolvency process under the IBC, what kind of evidence are they using to support their claims before the NCLT, what is the average time taken by the NCLT to dispose off insolvency cases, what is the outcome of the proceedings and is there variation between the benches. Within this limited dataset and within such a short time from the passing of the law, the paper finds behavioural shifts among credit market participants. As the insolvency cases increase, this data set will too increase in scope and size and will form the foundation to answer questions relating to the impact of the IBC and the overall functioning of the Indian bankruptcy regime.
Y10|An Assessment of the National Establishment Time Series (NETS) Database|The National Establishment Time Series (NETS) is a private sector source of U.S. business microdata. Researchers have used state-specific NETS extracts for many years, but relatively little is known about the accuracy and representativeness of the nationwide NETS sample. We explore the properties of NETS as compared to official U.S. data on business activity: The Census Bureau's County Business Patterns (CBP) and Nonemployer Statistics (NES) and the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW). We find that the NETS universe does not cover the entirety of the Census-based employer and nonemployer universes, but given certain restrictions NETS can be made to mimic official employer datasets with reasonable precision. The largest differences between NETS employer data and official sources are among small establishments, where imputation is prevalent in NETS. The most stringent of our proposed sample restrictions still allows scope that cover s about three quarters of U.S. private sector employment. We conclude that NETS microdata can be useful and convenient for studying static business activity in high detail.
Y10|Estimating agricultural production in Scania, 1702–1881 : User guide for the Historical Database of Scanian Agriculture and overall results|The Historical Database of Scanian Agriculture (HDSA) is a micro-level database over farm production in the most southern Swedish region of Scania (Skåne) based on flexible tithes. It contains over 85,000 farm level observations of both vegetable and animal production for the period 1702 to 1881. Moreover, this information is supplemented by information on the farmer, the farm, on enclosures, natural conditions, and distances from the farmstead to towns. The database is an open source and this paper provides information on the sources behind the data, the composition of the sample, and the way the database can be used to estimate production. The second part of the paper performs an overall analysis of the agricultural revolution in the area, showing the development over time of the vegetable and animal production, their respective significance, and an estimation of production per capita 1702 to 1865.
Y10|Research Grants in Russian Science: Evidences of an Empirical Study|The paper discusses the results of a survey devoted to the role of research grants for the modern Russian academic community. Researchers’ motives to apply for grants, the strategies used in grant contests, the factors decisive for grant success are presented. Also the extent of Russian scientists’ trust to the main research foundations in the country is discussed. The study has demonstrated that the symbolic value of grants for Russian scientists play a secondary role in comparison to their economic meaning: participation in grant contests is mainly motivated not by the aspiration for professional recognition, but the need for financial support. The paper might be of interest for sociologists of science and others interested in current transformations of scientific field in the country. Above all, an overview of academic literature on the topic – both foreign and Russian – is presented in the paper, what can make a significant contribution to any research on grant science: its evolution, national peculiarities of grant systems, grants’ influence on researchers’ work and life worldwide.
Y10|Risk and performance: empirical evidence from bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj|The aim of the study is to investigate the risk and performance of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bank. The data obtained from annual report of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ from 2011-2015. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression and correlation. The study use the return on assets (ROA) as the probability indicators to measure the bank’s risk and financial performance, the indicators known as the dependent variables. The regression analysis and correlation shows only one factor is significant to ROA which is liquidity.
Y10|Cryptocurrency Voting Games|This work shows that weighted majority voting games occur in cryptocurrencies. In particular, two such games are highlighted. The first game, which we call the Rule Game, pertains to the scenario where the entities in the system engage in a voting procedure to accept or reject a change of rules. The second game, which we call the Attack Game, refers to the scenario where a group of entities in a cryptocurrency system can form a coalition to engage in double spending. For the Rule Game we provide analysis to argue that the Coleman’s preventive power measure is the appropriate tool for measuring a player’s influence in the game while for the Attack Game, we define a notion of stability based on the notion of minimal winning coalitions. For both the Rule Game and the Attack Game, we show how to analyse the games based on a snapshot of real world data for Bitcoin which is presently the most popular of all the cryptocurrencies.
Y10|Using R and Google-API Tools to Estimate Geographic Features|This technical document is a guide for using Google APIs to find information for research purposes. First, I apply the code to find the elevation at a given set of coordinates for specific locations. Second, I apply the code to find the street distances between two or more sets of coordinates. All the codes and sample files are available in the zip file attached to this guide.
Y10|A Technical Note on Spatial Aggregation for Independent Cities and Counties in Virginia|This document provides an overview of two approaches to treat Virginia’s independent cities in county-level data sets. Then, issues of spatial aggregation and geographical division change are introduced respectively. A Python function for spatial aggregation is also provided. Although this document focuses on independent cities and counties in Virginia, it can be extended into other regions for spatial aggregation.
Y10|What publications metadata tell us about the evolution of a scientific community: the case of the Brazilian human–computer interaction conference series|Abstract Human–computer interaction (HCI) is a research field which engages different disciplines, interest groups and communities, and which has emerged in different countries at different times. To understand how the HCI research community has evolved in Brazil, this paper applies data and visual analytics to its main conference series, the Brazilian Symposium on Human Factors in Computing Systems, henceforth IHC. We have explored the metadata of all 340 full papers published in the 14 editions of IHC. Our goal was to investigate the evolution of the Brazilian HCI community so we can raise the level of “self-knowledge” and thus discuss strategies that can further help develop this research community. From our analysis, we could understand more deeply the authorship profile of our community and how it has changed over time, the co-authorship networks evolution, the prominent institutions and states, the reference profile and the research topics over time. We hope that this paper will contribute to inspire other scientific communities to analyze themselves, and encourage their own discussions.
Y10|Learner flow through patterns in the Western Cape using CEMIS datasets from 2007 to 2014: A longitudinal cohort analysis|The aim of the study was to track learners as a group or cohort over a specified period of time. This longitudinal data cohort analysis was to determine how successful learners progressed through the Western Cape public education system and how many eventually dropped out of this system. The Central Education Management Information System (CEMIS) datasets from 2007-2014 were used to create a longitudinal dataset of individual learners. The study shows the importance of unit-level records. With the availability of unit-level learner records key questions can be answered such as: “What is the profile of the learners who dropped out of the system, or what is the profile of the learners who progressed without any repetition?” When individual learner-unit records are available one can track learners as a group or cohort over a specified period of time. Longitudinal cohort tracking provides a more complete picture and true reflection of the education system about the progress (dropout and repetition) of learners. In order to achieve the goals in this study, the following methods were used: cross-sectional analysis of patterns and trends in the flow of learners in the Western Cape between 2007 and 2014 and a longitudinal cohort analysis to determine progression of learners through the education system without repetition, repetition of learners who nevertheless remain in the system and dropping out of learners. The study clearly shows high repetition in primary school. Most learners progressed through the system without repeating, but a high percentage also repeated one or more grades but remained the system. The study shows evidence of high dropout in secondary school. This is in contrast with the primary school phase where a high repetition rate but a lower dropout was recorded. Although there is movement out of public schools into independent schools, and out of the Western Cape to other provinces, the most likely cause of dropping out of the CEMIS data in high schools is actual dropping out of school. Furthermore, the study has shown a particularly high repetition rate of Grade 9 learners and a high dropout of learners after Grade 9. Hence, it was informative to follow a number of Grade 9 cohorts in order to determine the consistency of trends in repetition, dropout and completion over time. Perhaps more important is the clear evidence that repetition in Grade 9 is the precursor to almost inevitable dropping out of school without completing matric.
Y10|Online Annex – Economic Challenges of Lagging Regions: Annex II – Econometric Analysis and Supplemental Tables|This report is an annex to wiiw Research Report 423, ‘Economic Challenges of Lagging Regions III Recent Investment Trends and Needs’. Based on spatial econometric methods, it provides estimates and simulations of the investment effects on economic development in the EU lagging regions. It also provides additional data related to the analysis in wiiw Research Report 423.
Y10|GIS-based Methods for Estimating Missing Poverty Rates & Projecting Future Rates in Census Tracts|"Since 2000 census, the American Community Survey (ACS) publishes poverty rate data based on five-year estimates only. We look at poverty rate estimation in two stages. In part 1, a situation where 5% of the poverty rate data is purposely missing from census tracts is simulated. Several interpolation methods were tried in GIS including Empirical Bayesian Kriging (EBK) and local polynomial interpolation (LPI). It is seen that using the EBK method a mean absolute percent error (MAPE) of 4.1% in the estimation process can be achieved as validated by the 2007-11 five year interval estimates of ACS poverty data. In part 2, the census tract poverty rates from 2000 as well as the ACS five year interval estimates from 2005-09, 2006-10 and 2007-11 were processed by first devising a procedure for unifying the underlying variable census tract geography. Then, poverty data for the time periods were used to create three dimensional poverty rate surfaces using the EBK method. Geographically Weighted Regression method enabled validation of the prediction process with a very low MAPE of 1.5% in comparison to the predicted poverty surface, followed by prediction of poverty rates across census tracts for a ""future"" period in time."
Y10|Quality weighted citations versus total citations in the sciences and social sciences, with an application to finance and accounting|Purpose - – Both journal self-citations and exchanged citations have the effect of increasing a journal’s impact factor, which may be deceptive. The purpose of this paper is to analyse academic journal quality and research impact using quality-weighted citations vs total citations, based on the widely used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). A new Index of Citations Quality (ICQ) is presented, based on quality-weighted citations. Design/methodology/approach - – The new index is used to analyse the leading 500 journals in both the sciences and social sciences, as well as finance and accounting, using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs) that are based on alternative transformations of citations. Findings - – It is shown that ICQ is a useful additional measure to 2-year impact factor (2YIF) and other well-known RAMs for the purpose of evaluating the impact and quality, as well as ranking, of journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in the well-known RAMs for both the sciences and social sciences, and finance and accounting. Practical implications - – Journals can, and do, inflate the number of citations through self-citation practices, which may be coercive. Another method for distorting journal impact is through a set of journals agreeing to cite each other, that is, by exchanging citations. This may be less coercive than self-citations, but is nonetheless unprofessional and distortionary. Social implications - – The premise underlying the use of citations data is that higher quality journals generally have a higher number of citations. The impact of citations can be distorted in a number of ways, both consciously and unconsciously. Originality/value - – Regardless of whether self-citations arise through collusive practices, the increase in citations will affect both 2YIF and 5-year impact factor (5YIF), though not Eigenfactor and Article Influence. This leads to an ICQ, where a higher ICQ would generally be preferred to lower. Unlike 5YIF, which is increased by journal self-citations and exchanged citations, and Eigenfactor and Article Influence, both of which are affected by quality-weighted exchanged citations, ICQ will be less affected by exchanged citations. In the absence of any empirical evidence to the contrary, 5YIF and AI are assumed to be affected similarly by exchanged citations.
Y10|Social and Business Innovations: Are Common Measurement Approaches Possible?|This article reviews various approaches to measuring business innovation with the aim of drawing lessons for measuring social innovations, and offers several methodological and policy conclusions. First, Innovation Union Scoreboard (IUS) indicators, in principle, could be useful in settings where the dominant mode of innovation is based on R&D activities. In practice, however, both R&D and non-R&D-based modes of innovation are important. IUS, therefore, only provides a partial picture. Social innovations can rely on R&D-based technological innovations; their essence, however, tends to be organizational, managerial, and behavioural changes. The IUS indicators do not capture these types of changes. Second, an assessment of the 81 indicators used to compile the Global Innovation Index reveals that it would not be fruitful to rely on such indicators to capture social innovations. Third, given the diversity among innovation systems, a poor performance signalled by a composite indicator does not automatically identify the area(s) necessitating the most urgent policy actions; only tailored, thorough comparative analyses can do so. Finally, analysts and policy makers need to be aware of the differences between measuring (i) social innovation activities (or efforts); (ii) the framework for social innovations (pre-requisites, available inputs, skills, norms, values, behavioural patterns, etc.); and (iii) the economic, societal, and environmental impacts of social innovations.
Y10|Social and Business Innovations: Are Common Measurement Approaches Possible?|This article reviews various approaches to measuring business innovation with the aim of drawing lessons for measuring social innovations, and offers several methodological and policy conclusions. First, Innovation Union Scoreboard (IUS) indicators, in principle, could be useful in settings where the dominant mode of innovation is based on R&D activities. In practice, however, both R&D and non-R&D-based modes of innovation are important. IUS, therefore, only provides a partial picture. Social innovations can essentially rely on R&D-based technological innovations; their essence, however, tends to be essentially organizational, managerial, and behavioural modifications. The IUS indicators do not capture these types of changes. Second, an assessment of the 81 indicators used to compile the Global Innovation Index reveals that it would not be fruitful to rely on such indicators to capture social innovations. Third, given the diversity among innovation systems, a poor performance signalled by a composite indicator does not automatically identify the area(s) necessitating the most urgent policy actions; only tailored, thorough comparative analyses can do so. Finally, analysts and policy makers need to be aware of the differences between measuring (i) social innovation activities (or efforts); (ii) the framework for social innovations (pre-requisites, available inputs, skills, norms, values, behavioural patterns, etc.); and (iii) the economic, societal, and environmental impacts of social innovations.
Y10|ANALYSIS OF IMPACT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE METHODOLOGY OF LEAN MANUFACTURING SMEs IN THE REGION CENTRE OF COAHUILA, ANALISIS DEL IMPACTO EN LA APLICACION DE LAS METODOLOGIAS DE LA MANUFACTURA ESBELTA EN LAS PYMES DE LA REGION CENTRODE COAHUILA|Today's globalized world requires continuous improvement and a systematic approach to quality. In this research we examine SMEs in the central Coahuila region. We identify opportunities to improve processes through different methodologies that create lean manufacturing. The aim of the study was to analyze the use of these methodologies, and the impact on economic performance of the company. We design a tool to support the implementation and standardization of the process
Y10|Analysis Of Teaching Learning Process In The Comprehensive Performance Of Industrial Engineer, Analisis Del Proceso Ensenanza Aprendizaje En El Desempeno Integral Del Ingeniero Industrial|We know the importance of developing in students, in tertiary education, their full potential so that they are prepared to be relevant in the employment arena. This research examine comprehensive training received by Industrial Engineering students of the Higher Technological Institute of Monclova. The results generated will be elements to consider to identify areas of opportunity to nurture competent engineers.
Y10|Assessing Public Spending Efficiency in 20 OECD Countries|This study follows the framework of Afonso, Schuknecht, and Tanzi (2005), aiming to look at the public expenditure of 20 OECD countries for the period 2009-2013, from the perspective of efficiency and assess if these developed countries are performing efficiently compared to each other. Public Sector Performance (PSP) and Public Sector Efficiency (PSE) indicators were constructed and Data Envelopment Analysis was conducted. The results show that the only country that performed on the efficiency frontier is Switzerland. The average input-oriented efficiency score is equal to 0.732. That is, on average countries could have reduced the level of public expenditure by 26.8% and still achieved the same level of public performance. The average output-oriented efficiency score is 0.769 denoting that on average the sample countries could have increased their performance by 23.1% by employing the same level of public expenditure. Key Words : Public Spending, Technical Efficiency, Public Sector Performance (PSP), Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA)
Y10|The Formation of Consumer Brand Preferences|Brands and brand capital have long been theorized to play an important role in the formation of the industrial market structure of consumer goods industries. We summarize several striking empirical regularities in the concentration, magnitude and persistence of brand market shares in consumer goods categories. We then survey the theoretical and empirical literatures on the formation of brand preferences and how brand preferences contribute to our understanding of these empirical regularities. We also review the literature on how brand capital creates strategic advantages to firms that own established brands.
Y10|Economics and How Obama Could Have Lost the 2016 Election Too|During the 2016 U.S. election, many voters from democratic (‘blue wall’) states, which have voted consistently in the past elections for the democrats, suddenly moved back into the Republican fold. During this election, the primary economic issue was supposed to be NAFTA, both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump claimed it has been responsible for U.S. manufacturing job losses. So, what is the effect of trade on personal income and in particular manufacturing income and employment? Still, manufacturing losses are unlikely to explain democratic losses in rural areas, such as Wisconsin, where farm voters switched parties. What is the relationship between farm income and election result? Finally, are farmers Republican, Democrat or Independent? Or just pragmatic?
Y10|What is a Fair Value of Your Recommendation List?|We propose a new quality metric for recommender systems. The main feature of our approach is the fact, that we take into account the set of requirements, which are important for business application of a recommender. Thus, we construct a general criterion, named “audience satisfaction”, which thoroughly describe the result of interaction between users and recommendation service. During the criterion construction we had to deal with a number of common recommenders’ problems: a) Most of users rate only a random part of the objects they consume and a part of the objects that were recommended to them; b) Attention of users is distributed very unevenly over the list of recommendations and it requires a special behavioral model; c) The value of the user’s rate measures the level of his/her satisfaction, hence these values should be naturally incorporated in the criterion intrinsically; d) Different elements may often dramatically differ from each other by popularity (long tail – short head problem) and this effect prevents accurate measuring of user’s satisfaction. The final metric takes into account all these issues, leaving opportunity to adjust the metric performance based on proper behavioral models and parameters of short head problem treatment.
Y10|The Index of Asia-Pacific Regional Integration Effort|"The Asia-Pacific region is not typically seen as one geographic or socio-economic space. Yet, 58 regional economies occupying the space of 28 million square kilometers from Turkey in the West, Russian Federation in the North, French Polynesia in the East and New Zealand in the South belong to the Economic and Social Commission of Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). This commission provides a forum for member states that ""promotes regional cooperation and collective action, assisting countries in building and sustaining shared economic growth and social equity"". In 2013, ESCAP's members adopted the Bangkok Declaration to enhance efforts towards deeper regional economic integration. Yet this document neither proposes a concrete modality or modalities of achieving deeper integration, nor provides a sense of distance of individual countries to a ""perceived"" integrated Asia-Pacific.This paper aims to comprehensively quantify recent integration efforts of economies in the Asia-Pacific region. We provide an ""index of integration effort"" based on twelve metrics that measure the relative distance of a given economy to the region as an economic entity. Generally, we find that while the region has trended towards becoming integrated in general, both the level of integration and integration effort are inconsistent among Asia-Pacific economies. We discuss potential applications and extensions of the index in developing our perspective of the region’s economic and social dynamics."
Y10|Robust Ranking of Journal Quality: An Application to Economics| The article focuses on the robustness of rankings of academic journal quality and research impact in general, and in economics, in particular, based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). The article analyzes 299 leading international journals in economics using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs), and highlights the similarities and differences in various RAMs, which are based on alternative transformations of citations and influence. All existing RAMs to date have been static, so two new dynamic RAMs are developed to capture changes in impact factor over time and escalating journal self-citations. Alternative RAMs may be calculated annually or updated daily to determine When, Where, and How (frequently) published articles are cited (see Chang et al., 2011a-c). The RAMs are grouped in four distinct classes that include impact factor, mean citations, and non-citations, journal policy, number of high quality articles, journal influence, and article influence. These classes include the most widely used RAMs, namely, the classic 2-year impact factor including journal self-citations (2YIF), 2-year impact factor excluding journal self citations (2YIF*), 5-year impact factor including journal self citations (5YIF), Eigenfactor (or Journal Influence), Article Influence, h-index, and Papers Ignored-By Even The Authors (PI-BETA). As all existing RAMs to date have been static, two new dynamic RAMs are developed to capture changes in impact factor over time (5YD2 = 5YIF/2YIF) and Escalating Self-Citations (ESC). We highlight robust rankings based on the harmonic mean of the ranks of RAMs across the four classes. It is shown that emphasizing the 2YIF of a journal, which partly answers the question as to When published articles are cited, to the exclusion of other informative RAMs, which answer Where and How (frequently) published articles are cited, can lead to a distorted evaluation of journal quality, impact, and influence relative to the harmonic mean of the ranks.
Y10|El deber de lealtad y sus concreciones en la legislación cooperativa<BR>[The duty of loyalty in the cooperative law. A comparative study]|Entre los deberes de los miembros de los órganos de gobierno de las diferentes entidades, vinculados al buen gobierno de éstas, destaca el deber de lealtad, derivado del deber de buena fe, y consistente en la obligación de actuar en interés de la entidad en caso de conflicto de intereses con ésta, subordinando los propios a favor de aquélla, salvo que se autorice tal situación. Se trata de un deber predicable tanto respecto de los miembros del órgano de administración, que deben gestionar el interés de la sociedad, como de los socios, tomando en consideración el fin común que deriva del contrato de sociedad. Este deber, al mismo tiempo se concreta en una serie de normas más precisas, relativas a la transparencia, la remuneración, la prohibición de competencia, la autocontratación, etc. Partiendo de lo anterior, este estudio recoge una comparativa de la regulación del deber de lealtad y sus distintas concreciones en las Leyes de cooperativas en España, tanto en relación con los administradores sociales, como de los socios en general, comparando ésta al mismo tiempo con la regulación de estos aspectos en el Derecho de sociedades en general, y en la Ley de Sociedades en General en particular, con el objetivo de obtener una visión general de la cuestión, base necesaria para poder profundizar en ella, planteando una serie de conclusiones o valoraciones preliminares.
Y10|Estimación de desigualdad de ingreso y otras variables relacionadas para Chile entre 1860 y 1970. Metodología y resultados obtenidos<BR>[Income inequality estimates for Chile between 1860 and 1970. Methodology and main results]|El presente Documento de Trabajo contiene una relación precisa de los procedimientos seguidos para la estimación de series relativas al ingreso y su distribución entre personas y sectores en Chile entre 1860 y 1970, así como de los resultados obtenidos. El mismo se basa en el capítulo 3 y los apéndices estadísticos y metodológicos de la tesis doctoral del autor (Rodríguez Weber 2014). En el texto se analizan en primer lugar las alternativas metodológicas de que disponen los historiadores económicos para estimar la distribución del ingreso, así como alguno de los problemas y limitaciones que estas plantean. En la tercera sección se describen en detalle los procedimientos seguidos y las fuentes utilizadas para construir series de desigualdad entre 1860 y 1970. Finalmente, estos resultados se someten a crítica, demostrando que las tendencias estimadas son robustas a la utilización de distintas fuentes y la opción por decisiones metodológicas y supuestos alternativos. El documento incluye asimismo un apéndice estadístico con los resultados obtenidos.
Y10|Gini Coefficients of Education for 146 Countries, 1950-2010|We provide Gini coefficients of education based on data from Barro and Lee (2010) for 146 countries for the years 1950-2010. We compare them to an earlier data set and run some related loess fit regressions on average years of schooling and GDP per capita, both showing negative slopes, and among the latter two variables. Tertiary education is shown to reduce education inequality. A growth regression shows that tertiary education increases growth, Gini coefficients of education have a u-shaped impact on growth and labour force growth has an inverted u-shape effect on growth.
Y10|Tax Policies, Agriculture and the Environment| This paper reviews agricultural tax policies, with particular emphasis on Michigan, that have potential implication to environmental outcomes. In this, non‐environmental tax policies are considered that may impact environmental outcomes through secondary channels. Such channels are discussed along with possible policy implications.
Y10|Impacto de la crisis en las grandes empresas familiares del mundo. Una primera aproximación cuantitativa para 11 países|Este working paper presenta una primera elaboración rudimentaria de dos bases de datos sobre las mayors empresas familiares del mundo en dos hitos cronológicos: 2005 (antes de la actual crisis), y 2010 (después del inicio de la actual crisis). Los objetivos principales son describir algunas de las principales evidencias empíricas cuantitativas observadas, y reflexionar sobre posibles impactos de la crisis en las mayores empresas familiares que existían en 11 países en 2005. Algunas conclusiones muy preliminares son, en primer lugar, que la crisis no parece haber provocado un col·lapso general entre las mayores empresas familiares del mundo, lo que indicaria buena resistencia a la actual situación de crisis. Segundo, que los aparentes efectos negativos de la crisis en este grupo de empresas parecen haber sido más significativos entre las empresas familiares de la vieja Europa que en las de otros continentes. Tercero, que los efectos aparentemente más positivos parecerían darse entre conglomerados de control familiar con domicilio social en economies emergentes, en los que hay empresas muy dinámicas en sectores de alta tecnologia, energia y finanzas. Una hipòtesis a investigar en el futuro derivada de estas observaciones es que en la crisis actual las grandes empresas familiares de economias emergentes, en sectores intensivos en capital y tecnologia, parecen tener mejores comportamientos económicos que grandes emporios familiares industriales de sectores menos capital intensivos.
Y10|Student Enrolement Management. Case Study At The Computer Science Department|In this paper, we will present a case study regarding the current situation in the strategic management of student enrolment for the Department of Computer Science, Engineering Faculty. We will present some theoretical aspects of the strategic enrollment management applied by the Computer Science Department. Based on a questionnaire we will identify the geographical area where the students came from and their motivations to enroll to this specialization. In addition, we will analyze the expectations of students regarding their future employment.
Y10|Regulation in Swiss Cantons: Data for one Century|We present and illustrate novel data on more than a century of regulation in Switzerland. We provide quantitative measures for Swiss cantons on the annual stock of legally binding rules from 2006-2013 and on regulatory activity as reflected in the annual changes to such regulation from 1908-2013. We measure the stock of regulation by the number of enactments and characters, and the regulatory activity by the number of changed enactments and pages. We break down the measures by the level in the hierarchy of legal norms and by the issuing authority. The data reveal substantial cantonal heterogeneity in the stock of regulation and the extent and development of regulatory activity. Regulatory activity generally increased over the century, though in a non-monotonic and volatile manner. Quantitatively, regulation at the level of decrees and regulation by the executive dominate. We also construct our measures for the federal level from 2006-2013 (stock) and 1848-2013 (activity).
Y10|La acción sindical en el conflicto salarial de la Argentina post-convertibilidad (2006-2010)|Luego de las transformaciones científico-técnicas ocurridas en el capitalismo global des­de mediados de la década del setenta del siglo pasado, diversos autores cuestionaron la centralidad del trabajo (y las organizaciones de los trabajadores), como categoría rele­vante para estudiar el conflicto social y su dinámica. Mediante el análisis estadístico con base en datos de conflictos laborales para el período 2006-2010, y la construcción de las categorías acción sindical y no sindical, el presente trabajo objeta este argumento al de­mostrar que la acción sindical no sólo es responsable del incremento del conflicto laboral en Argentina, sino que lo sostiene en momentos claves como el de negociación colectiva y vacaciones de los trabajadores, al tiempo que favorece la conformación de una nueva organización gremial.
Y10|Análisis bibliométrico para la identificación de factores de innovación en la industria alimenticia|El artículo que se presenta a continuación plantea el objetivo de identificar los principales factores de la innovación expuestos en la literatura especializada en la industria alimenticia. Para su desarrollo, se realizó un ejercicio bibliométrico orientado al análisis de artículos científicos en el sector. A partir de los resultados, se concluye que los principales factores para la innovación en la industria alimenticia se asocian a los canales de comunicación y la participación en el proceso productivo de los clientes, proveedores o instituciones públicas o privadas (como universidades o Centros de Investigación). De acuerdo con los vínculos creados entre los actores involucrados, se genera un intercambio de conocimiento o información relacionada, principalmente, con la calidad de vida, nutrición y eficiencia en la producción, impactando así el desarrollo de productos, cambios a la oferta existente o transformaciones de los procesos productivos. En esta perspectiva, la innovación en la industria se adscribe a la “Innovación abierta”, donde la “Coinnovación” y “Cocreación” son claves para la relación de intercambio, y participación, de los actores involucrados.
Y10|Do People Shape Cities, or Do Cities Shape People? The Co-evolution of Physical, Social, and Economic Change in Five Major U.S. Cities|Urban change involves transformations in the physical appearance and the social composition of neighborhoods. Yet, the relationship between the physical and social components of urban change is not well understood due to the lack of comprehensive measures of neighborhood appearance. Here, we introduce a computer vision method to quantify change in physical appearance of streetscapes and generate a dataset of physical change for five large American cities. We combine this dataset with socioeconomic indicators to explore whether demographic and economic changes precede, follow, or co-occur with changes in physical appearance. We find that the strongest predictors of improvement in a neighborhood’s physical appearance are population density and share of college-educated adults. Other socioeconomic characteristics, like median income, share of vacant homes, and monthly rent, do not predict improvement in physical appearance. We also find that neighborhood appearances converge to the initial appearances of bordering areas, supporting the Burgess “invasion” theory. In addition, physical appearance is more likely to improve in neighborhoods proximal to the central business district. Finally, we find modest support for “tipping” and “filtering” theories of urban change.
Y10|What does ‘‘entrepreneurship’’ data really show?|This book presents some of Zoltán J. Ács’ most important contributions since the turn of the the new millennium, with a particular intellectual focus on the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship. This approach was shaped by three major events: the rapid globalization that occurred in the first decade of the 21st century; research on the role institutions have played in economic development during the past few decades; and the spread of entrepreneurial activity around the world following the collapse of communism at the end of the 20th century. This entrepreneurial activity has given rise to many questions of theory, measurement and policy.
Y10|What does “entrepreneurship” data really show?|"We compare two ""entrepreneurship"" datasets: Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) captures early-stage entrepreneurship and World Bank Group Entrepreneurship Survey (WBGES) captures business registration. GEM data is higher in developing economies than WBGES data, but this reverses in developed countries. We find differences related to local institutional conditions, after controlling for economic development. A possible explanation is WBGES measures formal entry, whereas GEM measures intent. This can be interpreted as the spread between individuals who could potentially operate businesses in the formal sector - and those that actually do. Our findings suggest entrepreneurs in developed countries have greater ease and incentives to incorporate.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
Y10|Familias empresarias y grandes empresas familiares en América Latina y España: una visión de largo plazo|Son numerosos los libros y artículos que analizan las claves del éxito de las familias empresarias y grupos familiares que perduran en el tiempo, si bien la gran mayoría de los negocios registrados como empresas desaparecen en dos generaciones. Aunque esos datos pudieran hacer pensar en el fracaso de este tipo de empresas, a través del estudio de los mayores negocios familiares de ocho países de América Latina y España a lo largo de más de un siglo, esta obra pone de manifiesto que las familias empresarias desaparecen de una empresa y surgen en otras continuando con la actividad a lo largo de décadas en un continuo proceso de adaptación, diversificándose en sectores que presentan mayores expectativas de rentabilidad o seguridad, alterando para ello la denominación jurídica de los negocios, el organigrama o los esquemas de gobierno. Con la metodología propia de la historia empresarial que combina archivos públicos y privados, entrevistas con un enfoque interdisciplinar, y con la participación de veintidós especialistas de once países, este libro revela que en América Latina y España son las familias empresarias, a través de empresas independientes o grupos, la clave histórica de la riqueza de los territorios en los que se desarrollan. Esta monografía se acompaña por un portal, accesible a través del sitio web de la Fundación BBVA, en el que se presentan distintos recursos adicionales como un análisis estadístico y gráfico de los datos resultado de esta investigación, además de una base de datos con la información sobre los mayores negocios familiares en los nueve países analizados para el año 2010. El conjunto de esta obra proporciona una herramienta de utilidad para un público lector del ámbito académico, así como para consultores y gestores económicos.
Y10|The persistent high-tech myth in the EC policy circles - Implications for the EU10 countries|Given the economic, societal and environmental relevance of innovation, this paper contrasts various models of innovation, compares how innovation is understood in mainstream economics and evolutionary economics of innovation and juxtaposes the concomitant policy rationales. By discussing two monitoring tools used by the European Commission to assess its member states’ innovation performance, it argues that the science-push model of innovation is still highly influential in the EC STI policy circles, in spite of the significance of non-R&D types of knowledge in innovation processes. Then it explores various types of opportunity costs stemming from the persistent high-tech myth, considers possible historical and sociological reasons for its perseverance and discusses policy implications of the systemic view of innovation, with an emphasis on the case of the EU10 countries. Policy conclusions include: i) several policies affect innovation processes and performance, perhaps even more strongly than STI policies, and hence policy goals and tools need to be orchestrated across several policy domains; ii) STI policies should promote learning and knowledge-intensive activities in all sectors, including low- and medium-technology industries and services; iii) analysts and policy-makers need to avoid the trap of paying too much attention to simplifying ranking exercises; iv) new indicators that better reflect the evolutionary processes of learning and innovation would be needed to support analysis and policy-making; v) the choice of an economics paradigm to guide policy evaluation is likely to be decisive.
Y10|Various approaches to measuring business innovation: their relevance for capturing social innovation|This paper reviews various approaches to measuring business innovation from the angle of capturing social innovations and offers several methodological and policy conclusions. First, the Innovation Union Scoreboard (IUS) indicators in principle could be useful in settings where the dominant mode of innovation is based on R&D activities. In practice, however, both R&D and non-R&D-based modes of innovation are fairly important. IUS, therefore, only provides a partial picture. Social innovations can certainly rely on R&D-based technological innovations. Their essence, however, tends to be organisational, managerial and behavioural changes. The IUS indicators do not capture these types of changes. Second, an assessment of the 81 indicators used to compile the Global Innovation Index reveals that it would neither be a fruitful effort to rely on those indicators to capture social innovations. Third, given the diversity among innovation systems, a poor performance signalled by a composite indicator does'nt automatically identify the area(s) necessitating the most urgent policy actions. Only tailored, thorough comparative analyses can do so. Fourth, analysts and policy-makers need to be aware of the differences between measuring (i) social innovation activities (efforts) themselves, (ii) the framework conditions (pre-requisites, available inputs, skills, norms, values, behavioural patterns, etc.) of being socially innovative, and (iii) the economic, societal or environmental impacts of social innovations.
Y10|The Gothenburg Population Panel 1915-1943: GOPP Version 6.0|This paper presents the Gothenburg Population Panel (GOPP), a random sample of individuals who were living in Gothenburg at some point in time during the period 1915-1943. The individuals in the GOPP were searched for every fourth year in the registers of local tax authorities. The hit rate was high; 95 percent of the individuals and 87 percent of the possible observations in the initial master sample were found. The database contains 12,500 observations of 3,767 unique individuals 16 years old or more, who are broadly representative of Gothenburg’s adult population in the period of investigation. The sample is augmented with spouses and information on children (birth year and incomes). The paper documents how the database was constructed, describes its historical context, compares it with official statistics, presents some basic sample characteristics and discusses the issue of panel attrition.
Y10|Mikroszimulációs nyugdíjmodellezés adattárház támogatásával<BR>[Microsimulatory pension modelling with support from a data storehouse]|No abstract is available for this item.
Y10|Bibliometric Rankings of Journals Based on the Thomson Reuters Citations Database|Virtually all rankings of journals are based on citations, including self citations by journals and individual academics. The gold standard for bibliometric rankings based on citations data is the widely-used Thomson Reuters Web of Science (2014) citations database, which publishes, among others, the celebrated Impact Factor. However, there are numerous bibliometric measures, also known as research assessment measures, based on the Thomson Reuters citations database, but they do not all seem to have been collected in a single source. The purpose of this paper is to present, define and compare the 16 most well-known Thomson Reuters bibliometric measures in a single source. It is important that the existing bibliometric measures be presented in any rankings papers as alternative bibliometric measures based on the Thomson Reuters citations database can and do produce different rankings, as has been documented in a number of papers in the bibliometrics literature.
Y10|The Culmination of the MDG’s: A New Arena of the Sustainable Development Goals|Established in 2000;the Millennium Development Goals had played a major role in bringing back the developmental issues to focus. Nearing the end of the stipulated time when they had to be achieved and standing at the edge of establishing the Sustainable development goals, we must comprehend the limitations of the MDGs and formulate SDGs in a way that it overcomes them. This paper is an attempt to observe the trends that the major indicators for health and urbanisation had followed after the MDGs had been established. One of the major issues which is clearly seen in the background of the achievement of targets to reach MDG goals and which must be addressed immediately in the developing countries is: increasing rural-urban and rich-poor gap in these countries. Inclusive growth as a target in the upcoming SDGs does give some hope, however, it must be taken care that the SDGs are not reduced to simply achieving some numbers but they broaden the development narrative beyond the narrow growth perspective.
Y10|Policy instruments to improve MSMEs access to external financing in developing countries: A survey|This paper presents the salient factors that characterize important aspects of firms’ access to external finance in developing countries. Cross-country data show that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) face more external financing constraints in Low Income Countries than in their rich counterparts. To explain this fact we distinguish both demand and supply factors underlying external financing constraints. We then argue for a catalytic role that development cooperation can play in alleviating these constraints. We present an illustration based on the policy instruments that have been used by development cooperation. Our particular interest is to document how well the Belgium Development Cooperation support of MSMEs compares to that provided by four other European countries: France, Germany, The Netherlands, and Sweden. We conclude with a discussion on the critical policy issues as regards the effectiveness of these interventions.
Y10|Do People Shape Cities, or Do Cities Shape People? THe Co-evolution of Physical, Social and Economic Change in Five Major U.S. Cities|"Urban change involves transformations in the physical appearance and the social composition of neighborhoods. Yet, the relationship between the physical and social components of urban change is not well understood due to the lack of comprehensive measures of neighborhood appearance. Here, we introduce a computer vision method to quantify change in physical appearance of streetscapes and generate a dataset of physical change for five large American cities. We combine this dataset with socioeconomic indicators to explore whether demographic and economic changes precede, follow, or co-occur with changes in physical appearance. We find that the strongest predictors of improvement in a neighborhood's physical appearance are population density and share of college-educated adults. Other socioeconomic characteristics, like median income, share of vacant homes, and monthly rent, do not predict improvement in physical appearance. We also find that neighborhood appearances converge to the initial appearances of bordering areas, supporting the Burgess ""invasion"" theory. In addition, physical appearance is more likely to improve in neighborhoods proximal to the central business district. Finally, we find modest support for ""tipping"" and ""filtering"" theories of urban change."
Y10|Dynamic Processes of an Airport's System. Applying Value Network Analysis (VNA) to the Air Traveller Experience|In this paper, we argue that networks are fundamental instruments for the development of the business system of airports’ landside area. We propose value network analysis (VNA) to gain a better understanding of how processes and people create value in airports’ network ecosystem. This methodology makes it possible to understand and visualise the internal and external value networks, mapping the players and their interrelationships and thus capturing the dynamics of the airports’ entire system. Applying value network analysis (VNA) to the air traveller experience, we conclude that this approach provides a network ecosystem perspective on how processes and people create value within the air traveller experience network. For the validation of this scenario, several interviews were conducted with experts.
Y10|Aspecte privind analiza statistica a repartitiei in plan teritorial a IMM-urilor cu cifra de afaceri cuprinsa intre 1 milion si 25 de milioane din Romania, in anul 2013|Articolul propune o alternativa de abordare a analizei catorva dintre indicatorii existenti in bilanturile contabile ale agentilor economici.
Y10|Principles- versus rules-based output statistical disclosure control in remote access environments|In recent years, the level of detail in confidential data made available to social scientists has increased dramatically. Much of this has been due to the growth in secure data access facilities, which allow access to the most detailed data under strictly controlled conditions. One element of that control is checking to ensure that statistical outputs do not present any residual disclosure risk. Traditionally this has been managed by specifying rules for researchers to follow, but it is increasingly recognised that a ‘principles-based’ approach can be both more secure and more cost-effective. The principles-based approach requires a higher level of expertise from the facility managers, and places the subjective assessment of risk at the forefront of decision-making; these two factors often make facility managers uncomfortable. In addition, knowledge of this approach is concentrated amongst a relatively small community, whereas the rules-based model has been the dominant approach for half a century; facility managers may not be aware that there is an alternative perspective. This paper reviews the arguments for the two different approaches. The two are not mutually exclusive: both take simple rules as a starting point, but the rules-based approach also finishes there. This has advantages in some circumstances, but this paper demonstrates that the value of the principles-based approach increases with the sensitivity of the data and gives more freedom to the researchers to innovate. The paper considers how the two approaches can be implemented. It notes that, although the principles-based model requires greater initial investment by both the facility managers and researchers, the necessary training can bring substantial auxiliary benefits to the facility manager. The paper therefore concludes that a principles-based approach has advantages in many circumstances, and it is essential for the remote research data centres which dominate access solutions for the most sensitive data.
Y10|Deutschland in Daten. Zeitreihen zur Historischen Statistik|Wie hoch? Wie groß? Wie viele? Mit welcher Dynamik? Wie haben sich Klima, Bevölkerung und Arbeit, wie Freizeit, Gesundheit und Sozialleistungen, wie Landwirtschaft oder Industrien entwickelt? „Deutschland in Daten“ liefert Zeitreihen zu zentralen Themenstellungen. Dieser Band präsentiert zu 22 Themen in über 1.000 Zeitreihen Daten für die Zeit seit dem 19. Jahrhundert und ordnet sie fachwissenschaftlich in die jeweiligen historischen Kontexte ein. Er bietet einen breit gefächerten und verlässlichen Einblick in die Historische Statistik von Deutschland über verschiedene Epochen und politische Systeme hinweg.
Y10|Existenzgründungen von ausländischen Staatsbürgern|Ausländer haben das Existenzgründungsgeschehen in den Jahren 2004 bis 2014 sowohl in Deutschland als auch Nordrhein-Westfalen in zunehmendem Maße beeinflusst. Eine beson-ders große Rolle haben ausländische Gründer im gewerblichen Bereich gespielt. Differenzie-rende Analysen auf Basis der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik zeigen, dass der Gründungsboom unter den Ausländern ausschließlich auf die Bürger der ost- und mitteleuropäischen EU-Beitrittsstaaten von 2004 und 2007 zurückgeht. Unter den übrigen Ausländern war im be-trachteten Zeitraum ebenso wie unter den Deutschen ein Rückgang bei den gewerblichen Gründungen zu beobachten. Die Gründungen von Ausländern weisen teils andere Tätig-keitsschwerpunkte und eine im Durchschnitt geringere wirtschaftliche Substanz auf als die der deutschen Gründer. Diese Unterschiede sind wiederum zu einem größeren Teil auf die Bürger der genannten EU-Beitrittsstaaten zurückzuführen, deren Anteil am gewerblichen Gründungsgeschehen seit 2014 aber rückläufig ist.
Y10|Relational environment and intellectual roots of 'ecological economics': An orthodox or heterodox field of research?|The way the fields are delineated has been the Achilles' heel of studies analyzing the status and evolution of given scientific areas. Based on van den Besselaar and Leydesdorff's (Mapping change in scientific specialities; a scientometric reconstruction of the development of artificial intelligence, 1996) contribution, the authors propose a systematic and objective method for delineating the field of ecological economics assuming that aggregated journal-journal citation relations is an appropriate indicator for the disciplinary organization of the sciences. They found that the relational scientific backbone of ecological economics comprises 7 main journals: American Journal of Agricultural Economics, Ecological Economics, Environment and Development Economics, Environmental and Resources Economics, Land Economics, Land Use Policy, and Journal of Environmental Economics and Management. From the 3727 articles published between 2005 and 2010 in the ecological economics field, and the corresponding 142 thousand citations two main outcomes emerged: 1) the intellectual frame of reference is overwhelmed by economists and environmental and resources economists with (renowned) ecological economists relatively underrepresented; 2) the building of an integrative knowledge domain is not apparent: on the one hand, ecological economics is seen to be an 'unbound' heterodox and multidisciplinary field, but on the other hand, and somewhat awkwardly, it is (still) heavily 'bound' by quantitative mainstream/ orthodox methodologies.
Y10|Ranking Law Journals And The Limits Of Journal Citation Reports|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12133-abs-0001""> Journal rankings published by Journal Citation Reports (JCR) are widely used to assess research quality, which influences important decisions by academic departments, universities, and countries in the allocation of research funds. We study refereed law journal rankings by JCR and Washington and Lee Law Library (W&L). JCR's rankings are uncorrelated with W&L's. The differences appear to be attributable to underrepresentation of law journals in JCR's database. We illustrate the effects of database bias on rankings through case studies of three elite journals, the Journal of Law and Economics, Supreme Court Review, and the American Law and Economics Review. (JEL C18, C81, Y10)"
Y10|Ranking Leading Econometrics Journals Using Citations Data from ISI and RePEc|The paper focuses on the robustness of rankings of academic journal quality and research impact of 10 leading econometrics journals taken from the Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science (ISI) Category of Economics, using citations data from ISI and the highly accessible Research Papers in Economics (RePEc) database that is widely used in economics, finance and related disciplines. The journals are ranked using quantifiable static and dynamic Research Assessment Measures (RAMs), with 15 RAMs from ISI and five RAMs from RePEc. The similarities and differences in various RAMs, which are based on alternative weighted and unweighted transformations of citations, are highlighted to show which RAMs are able to provide informational value relative to others. The RAMs include the impact factor, mean citations and non-citations, journal policy, number of high quality papers, and journal influence and article influence. The paper highlights robust rankings based on the harmonic mean of the ranks of 20 RAMs, which in some cases are closely related. It is shown that emphasizing the most widely-used RAM, the two-year impact factor of a journal, can lead to a distorted evaluation of journal quality, impact and influence relative to the harmonic mean of the ranks. Some suggestions regarding the use of the most informative RAMs are also given.
Y10|Ranking Economics and Econometrics ISI Journals by Quality Weighted Citations|The paper analyses academic journal quality and impact using quality weighted citations that are based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). A recently developed Index of Citations Quality (ICQ), based on quality weighted citations, is used to analyse the top 276 Economics and top 10 Econometrics journals in the ISI Economics category using alternative quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs). It is shown that ICQ is a useful additional measure to the 2-Year Impact Factor (2YIF) and other well known RAMs available in ISI for the purpose of evaluating journal impact and quality, as well as ranking, of Economics and Econometrics journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in alternative well-known RAMs. Among other findings, the top Econometrics journals have some of the highest ICQ scores in the ISI category of Economics.
Y10|Quality Weighted Citations Versus Total Citations in the Sciences and Social Sciences|The paper analyses academic journal quality and research impact using quality weighted citations versus total citations, based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). A new Index of Citations Quality (ICQ) is presented, based on quality weighted citations. The new index is used to analyse the leading 500 journals in both the Sciences and Social Sciences using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs) that are based on alternative transformations of citations. It is shown that ICQ is a useful additional measure to 2YIF and other well known RAMs for the purpose of evaluating the impact and quality, as well as ranking, of journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in the well known RAMs for both the Sciences and Social Sciences.
Y10|Just How Good Are The Top Three Journals In Finance? An Assessment Based On Quantity And Quality Citations|"The paper is concerned with ranking academic journal quality and research impact in Finance, based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI (2013) Web of Science citations database (hereafter ISI). The paper analyses the 89 leading international journals in the ISI category of ""Business–Finance"" using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs). The analysis highlights the similarities and differences in various RAMs, all of which are based on alternative transformations of journal citations and impact. Alternative RAMs may be calculated annually or updated daily to determine the citations frequency of published papers that are cited in journals listed in ISI. The RAMs include the classic 2-year impact factor including journal self citations (2YIF), 2-year impact factor excluding journal self citations (2YIF*), 5-year impact factor including journal self citations (5YIF), Immediacy including journal self citations, Eigenfactor (or Journal Influence), Article Influence (AI), h-index, Papers Ignored-By Even The Authors (PI-BETA), Self-citation Threshold Approval Rating (STAR), 5YD2 (namely, 5YIF divided by 2YIF), Escalating Self Citations (ESC) and Index of Citation Quality (ICQ). The paper calculates the harmonic mean (HM) of the ranks of up to 16 RAMs. It is shown that emphasizing 2YIF to the exclusion of other informative RAMs can lead to a misleading evaluation of journal quality and impact relative to the HM of the ranks. The analysis of the 89 ISI journals in Finance makes it clear that there are three leading journals in Finance, namely Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial Economics and Review of Financial Studies, which form an exclusive club in terms of the RAMs that measure journal quality and impact based on alternative measures of journal citations. The next two journals in Finance in terms of overall quality and impact are Journal of Accounting and Economics and Journal of Monetary Economics. As Accounting does not have a separate classification in ISI, the tables of rankings given in the paper are also used to rank the top 3 journals in the sub-category of Accounting in the ISI category of ""Business – Finance"", namely Journal of Accounting and Economics, Accounting Review, and Journal of Accounting Research."
Y10|Creeping Normalcy: Fractionation of Indian Land Ownership|In 1992 the General Accounting Office (GAO) published a quantitative survey of Indian land ownership of twelve reservations, which was the first and still is the only survey of Indian land ownership. In our study we use 2010 data to show how ownership fractionation for these reservations has changed since the original GAO study. We find that, despite the whole of Congressional action regarding land fractionation, and the US Bureau of Indian Affairs‘ (BIA’s) land consolidation programs, fractionation has not only continued, but BIA’s complex recordkeeping workload has nearly doubled for the twelve reservations over the eighteen year interval. The GAO estimated that BIA’s annual recordkeeping costs for these twelve reservations was between $40 and $50 million. With the addition of over a million new ownership records, due to fractionation, we estimate yearly recordkeeping costs have increased to $246 million in 2010.
Y10|The World Trade Geography: 1967-2011|The remarkable changes in the distribution of wealth and trade flows in recent decades are subject to abundant interpretations as a shift of the world economy gravity center towards Asia. Using CHELEM and BACI databases of CEPII this panorama examines and illustrates major geographical trends of the international trade in a coherent and comprehensive framework. The shifting of the center of global economy to Asia appears then as a natural phenomenon given the size of its population. A detailed analysis places each country on the world trade map. It appears that the globalization of trade flows has not erased the regional polarization; the major part of countries exports and imports mainly within their own geographical area. Despite globalization, intra-regional flows still dominate international trade. Developed later than in Europe or America, regional trade now accounts for more than half of Asian trade.
Y10|Panel Municipal del CEDE|El Panel Municipal del CEDE es una iniciativa del Centro de Estudios sobre Desarrollo Económico, por consolidar en una sola base de datos, información a nivel municipal. Este panel presenta información sobre características generales de los municipios, variables fiscales, de conflicto y violencia, del sector agrícola y tierras, y educación. El presente documento esboza de una manera amplia la motivación y los antecedentes del panel, su estructura y bondades. Finalmente, se concluye.
Y10|Robust ranking of multivariate GARCH models by problem dimension|Several Multivariate GARCH (MGARCH) models have been proposed, and recently such MGARCH specifications have been examined in terms of their out-of-sample forecasting performance. An empirical comparison of alternative MGARCH models is provided, which focuses on the BEKK, DCC, Corrected DCC (cDCC), CCC, OGARCH models, Exponentially Weighted Moving Average, and covariance shrinking, all fitted to historical data for 89 US equities. Notably, a wide range of models, including the recent cDCC model and the covariance shrinking method, are used. Several tests and approaches for direct and indirect model comparison, including the Model Confidence Set, are considered. Furthermore, the robustness of model rankings to the cross-sectional dimension of the problem is analyzed.
Y10|Quality Weighted Citations Versus Total Citations in the Sciences and Social Sciences|The paper analyses academic journal quality and research impact using quality weighted citations versus total citations, based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). A new Index of Citations Quality (ICQ) is presented, based on quality weighted citations. The new index is used to analyse the leading 500 journals in both the Sciences and Social Sciences using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs) that are based on alternative transformations of citations. It is shown that ICQ is a useful additional measure to 2YIF and other well known RAMs for the purpose of evaluating the impact and quality, as well as ranking, of journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in the well known RAMs for both the Sciences and Social Sciences.
Y10|Milk Chain In The Context Of The Common Agricultural Policy Reform – Productivity Gaps Between Romania And The Eu-27 Countries|Considering the new Common Agricultural Policy (2014-2020) for the milk sector, which will have as main component the removal of milk quotas after 2014, the paper makes an analysis of the links in the milk chain (agriculture, processing, trade, consumption) in Romania and the EU-27 countries in the period 2009-2012, based on the comparative analysis of some sets of specific indicators for each link in the chain, in order to indicate the performance level and position held by Romania among these European countries, as well as the modalities to narrow the productivity gaps on the Romanian milk chain compared to the European Union, aiming at improving the domestic supply and meeting the consumers’ needs. In this context, an investigation was made on each link in the chain, at the level of milk production, of raw milk collection for processing, milk distribution and consumption, strictly linked to the evolution of its quality and price, variants and measures being elaborated to narrow the productivity and institutional organization gaps of the milk chain in Romania.
Y10|The Effects of Path Dependence and Economy of Scale in Russian Legislature|The paper presents the results of the regular monitoring of the legislative process in the Russian Federation, which is carried out at the Institute of Economics, RAS since 2008. An original database of Russian federal (federal constitutional) laws’ attributes ‘LAWSTREAM.RU’ (open access www.inecon.ru & www.kirdina.ru) is used. The database is formed on the basis of two open sources: the official website of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the online version of the legal system ‘ConsultantPlus’. It covers the period from 1994 to 2014. The average term from initiating a bill to its enactment, the type of activities that laws regulate, the structure of actors who initiated laws, the ratio of new laws and amendments to existing legislation are analyzed. Increasing returns and path dependence effects in the legislative sphere of modern Russia are presented.
Y10|Communicating quantitative information: tables vs graphs|In applied statistics and computational econometrics a key task for researchers is to bring the sizable but unstructured body of numeric evidence, for example from Monte Carlo simulation, in a form ready for introducing to scientific dialog. At their disposal they find established means of arrangement: narrative text, tables, graphs. Employing classical principles of communication to evaluate their suitability graphical devices seem optimal. They absorb large quantities of data, and organize content into a productive tool. Graphs confirm the advantage when put to work in a standard simulation exercise. However, theory and application contrast with the norm observed in peer-reviewed journals – by a wide margin and with considerable persistency researchers prefer tables.
Y10|The small multiple in econometrics – a redesign|This brief note serves as a companion paper to Klein (2014). Small multiples incorporate graphical frameworks such as P value plots with ease, and thus facilitate visualizing quantitative data that record parameter change from simulation experiments. Pitfalls in layout may be avoided when observing elementary design principles. To illustrate their workings the principles revise a small multiple that collects simulation results on the empirical size of procedures testing exogeneity in the bivariate probit model.
Y10|Import of Research-Data Centre to Development of Banking and Finance Education in Nigeria|The importance of credible research data in conducting empirical studies in banking and finance is well established. Finance scholars face the challenge of finding and using reliable and credible data to provide empirical evidence to support investment and financial decision-making and to meet expectations for evidence-based finance practice. This paper discusses some of the benefits of establishing and operating specialised research-data centre for collection and storage of banking and finance data in Nigerian universities. The paper also emphasises the establishment of research centres with specialisation in specific areas in banking and/or finance as well as discusses the basic stages in establishing such centres.
Y10|Эффекты path dependence и экономии от масштаба в российском законотворчестве<BR>[The effects of path dependence and economies of scale in the Russian lawmaking]|В статье представлены результаты очередного этапа мониторинга законодательного процесса в Российской Федерации, который производится в Институте экономики РАН с 2008 г. Для мониторинга используется оригинальная база данных атрибутики федеральных (федеральных конституционных) законов Российской Федерации LAWSTREAM.RU, выложенная в открытом доступе (www.inecon.org и www.kirdina.ru). База сформирована на основе 2-х открытых источников: официального сайта Государственной Думы РФ и интернет-верссии справочной правовой системы КонсультантПлюс, охватывает период с 1994 по 2014 г. Анализируются сроки принятия законов; охват сфер регулирования; структура инициаторов внесения законов; соотношение новых законов и поправок в действующее законодательство. Продемонстрированы эффекты возрастающей отдачи и зависимости от предшествующего развития в законодательной сфере современной российской власти.
Y10|Quality Weighted Citations Versus Total Citations in the Sciences and Social Sciences|__Abstract__ The paper analyses academic journal quality and research impact using quality weighted citations versus total citations, based on the widely-used Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (ISI). A new Index of Citations Quality (ICQ) is presented, based on quality weighted citations. The new index is used to analyse the leading 500 journals in both the Sciences and Social Sciences using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs) that are based on alternative transformations of citations. It is shown that ICQ is a useful additional measure to 2YIF and other well known RAMs for the purpose of evaluating the impact and quality, as well as ranking, of journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in the well known RAMs for both the Sciences and Social Sciences.
