Y40|The Business Intelligence Model Validation|Due the lack of relevant frameworks into Business Intelligence (BI) research there is need for building new theoretical frameworks for intelligence activities to enable more effective information management and decision making. This presentation shall illustrate the part of survey results related for multi-scale Ph.D. Research study to define and measure the constructs to validate a model for the Connection of the Business Intelligence to Corporate Strategy and Corporate Value. The maximization strategy generally involves making sound financial investment decisions by taking into consideration any risk factors that would compromise or out-weight the anticipated benefits. The survey covers non-financial indicators influence for corporate wealth maximization. The purpose is to analyze the model that investigates Business Intelligence Systems by covering factors of system quality and information quality to attain success in Business Intelligence implementation and Corporate Value. The presented part of survey was implemented in Germany (2018) and scientific analyzes (PLS) covers empirically test of the critical value factors. Presentation summarizes the results of the authors' research on Business Intelligence System Quality and Information Quality and their use in context of Corporate?s strategy and Value.
Y40|Контент-Аналіз Дисертацій З Економічної Безпеки Підприємства, Захищених В Україні За 2000-2018 Рр<BR>[Content analysis of doctoral dissertations on enterprise economic security, defended in Ukraine in 2000-2018]|Актуальність. Актуальність проблеми забезпечення економічної безпеки підприємства у сучасних умовах господарювання постає особливо гостро через зростаючу кількість збиткових та збанкрутілих суб’єктів, брак ресурсів для ефективної діяльності, ризиками, загрозами та небезпеками внутрішнього та невизначеністю зовнішнього середовища тощо. Практична діяльність компаній із гарантування економічної безпеки потребує науково-методичного забезпечення, яке б розкривало кращі практики, узагальнювало наявні теоретичні напрацювання, методичні положення та прикладні розробки. Хоча первинною ланкою наукової комунікації є стаття, для аналізу обрано дисертаційні роботи з економічної безпеки підприємства як найбільш уніфікована форма представлення результатів наукового дослідження у цій галузі знань. Мета та завдання. Метою статті є проведення контент-аналізу захищених дисертацій з економічної безпеки підприємства задля визначення загального стану дослідницької галузі, ступеню координації наукових зусиль та основних тенденцій оприлюднених досліджень. Результати. Обрано дисертаційні роботи виключно з економічної безпеки підприємства, вибірка за 2000-2018 рр. склала 205 робіт. Подальший аналіз проведено за критеріями методу оброблення масивів даних LATCH - Location (розташування); Alphabet (алфавіт); Time (час); Category (категорія); Hierarchy (ієрархія). Визначено низку наукових спеціальностей, кількість кандидатських та докторських дисертацій, основну категорію в тематиці дисертацій, динаміку захистів, провідні установи, географічні центри та галузі. Виявлено певні закономірності масиву робіт, також що сталої динаміки у дослідженнях економічної безпеки підприємства за різними спеціальностями не спостерігається, є періоди зростання та спаду, є п’ять закладів вищої освіти України, де захищено найбільше робіт; виділяються сім географічних центрів дослідження економічної безпеки підприємства. Висновки. Існує певна повторюваність тем та напрямів досліджень у різних спеціальностях щодо вивчення економічної безпеки підприємства. При підрахунку частотності понять у темах дисертаційних робіт визначається відмінність спеціальностей і відповідно досліджень в їхніх рамках: 21.04.02 орієнтована на комплексне вивчення системотворення, міжнародних стандартів з економічної безпеки, взаємовпливу національної безпеки та економічної безпеки підприємств тощо. Маємо узгодити напрями досліджень в рамках різних наукових спеціальностей з теми економічної безпеки підприємства, гармонізувати термінологію (у т.ч. з іншомовними відповідниками), розробити ефективні теоретико-методичні положення та прикладні рекомендації для практичної діяльності фахівців чи менеджерів сфери економічної безпеки суб’єктів господарської діяльності.
Y40|Film as a Mass Medium: Audience Perception of Home Video Films as Representation of Realities in Nigeria (Study of Residents in Awka South)|The proliferation of home videos amongst other variables has been viewed as a major threat to creating narratives that truly represent the society. This study examines, using Nigeria as a context, the representation of reality in home video films. Gathering respondents from Awka South, a local government area in the south eastern part of Nigeria, the study employed the survey research design with a sample size of 400. The result of the analysis showed that home video film audiences perceived representation of realities in the society in home video films. The study draws from the reflective-projective theory of communication as the theoretical underpinning that provided insight on how the media mirrors the society.
Y40|Impact of human capital on opportunity entrepreneurship in Colombia, Chile and Ecuador|The present study finds the main factors that influence entrepreneurship in Colombia, Chile and Ecuador, based on data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor -GEM, 2014- and the Entrepreneurship Activity Rate -TEA-. For this, initially, the multivariate method of Multiple Correspondence Analysis was used. Subsequently, a binomial logit model was estimated for each of the countries. It was found that both formal and informal human capital are determinant to generate entrepreneurship by opportunity. Likewise, experience, empirical knowledge, gender and age. Finally, by including in the model the technological level of the sector (medium-high), it was estimated that Chile has a greater impact on entrepreneurship. given the current situation of diminishing tensions with the US government.
Y40|Foreign Language Teaching as an Intercultural Coaching: a Self-developmental Tool for High Level Intercultural Intelligence|"The goal of this paper is to bring some insights and practical information to the intercultural and foreign teaching community on how coaching foreign language is a perfect combination of intercultural and linguistics training. The purpose of the scientific study is to examine this process in detail and to form a cultural understanding with mutual tolerance towards otherness, as well as to present a comparative study of both cultures in a specific cultural context. The progress of scientific research on the topic that helps analyze intercultural communicative competence and applied linguistics training is vital to understanding and developing an intercultural approach. It should accompany not only contemporary foreign language training, but also comprehensive training due to migration, emigration, and globalization processes. Teaching and obtaining cross-cultural awareness provides a journey of increasing self-knowledge as the first step to being open to further knowledge and understanding of others. Both intercultural trainers and foreign language teachers should have to be multilingual and very well prepared linguists. They should have been working or studied both in the field of Psychology and Intercultural Communication. The study focuses on the problems and opportunities for training in intercultural communication. The study was conducted among Bulgarian and American Fulbright community, part of it investigating multicultural classrooms and university auditoriums and extracurricular activities. The intercultural context in which foreign language learning takes place is an aspect through which both children, students and adults find themselves able to acquire a sense of their own and of different cultures, to communicate in the new situation, and to create a suitable ""new"" cultural environment by coming in contact with another culture. The presented survey related to Fulbright students and teachers aims to help with English language teaching by analyzing the process itself. The future belongs to multicultural organizations and societies. The way traditional organizations are structured hierarchically is no longer adequate for the challenges that the globalised economical society with its increasing pace places. Multicultural leaderships and teams, situational and contextual decision making by them as members of the multicultural community and consistent innovation developing through qualified peer-feedback are going to be key to a successful world economy in the upcoming decades."
Y40|Does One Size Fit All? Investigating Different Empowerment Orientations in the Heterogeneous Workforce of the Swedish Retail Sector|Empowerment research and practice is guided by the idea that empowered employees perform better due to a greater sense of self-efficacy and capability. Underlying this idea, there often seem to be two tacit, unexamined assumptions: first, that employees generally would prefer an empowered workplace to a less empowered one; and second, that all employees can be empowered by means of the same measures and changes as defined by empowerment research. The main research question asked in this study is whether those aspects typically associated with structural and psychological empowerment efforts at the workplace are indeed perceived as desirable and positive by all types of employees. Employees’ attitudes toward the success of empowerment efforts, and the relevance of such attitudes, are investigated by analyzing survey data from 268 employees in the Swedish retail sector. Results indicate that age and work intensity (part-time vs. full-time) as well as cohabitation have significant impacts on how empowerment efforts are viewed by employees in the sample.
Y40|It Takes Two to Empower: The Communicative Context of Empowerment Change in the Workplace|Empowerment efforts at the workplace are typically divided into two analytical categories: social-structural and psychological empowerment. These have been extensively researched in terms of their application and handling as well as their outcome and general usefulness in human resource management. However, less research has dealt with communicative aspects of empowerment and the communicative interactions between change agents (managers) and recipients (employees) that frame empowerment efforts. To contribute to a more nuanced empowerment discourse, this paper uses a micro-/individual-oriented perspective on empowerment communication and theorizes why empowerment change efforts sometimes end up being counterproductive – leading to disempowerment rather than empowerment. As starting point for theorizing empowerment communication, a “basic communicative structure” is identified and analyzed as comprising a contractual and a communicative context, referring to conditions as outlined in written employment contracts on the one hand, and implicitly shared and understood definitions of the social employment situation on the other. Building on sociological and social-psychological theories of communicative interaction, it is argued that focusing on change agents’ and recipients’ mutual ascriptions of meanings to each other’s communicative messages might improve empowerment outcomes: A communicative analysis of common empowerment efforts suggests that recipients’ sensemaking of their roles and situations as defined by written employment and/or psychological contracts is not necessarily in line with the communicative meanings they ascribe to the change agents’ actions, and vice versa.
Y40|Generator Cooling Fan Vibrational Problems: A Design and Operational Case in Jordan|This project covers certain types of rotor generator vibrational problem, including both conventionally-cooled (indirect copper cooling) windings and direct cooled copper windings as well as those with spindle and body mounted retaining rings. The options for rewinding, modifying, or upgrading are provided for each case type as encountered in the Jordan Petroleum Refinery. Generally; when dealing with generator rotors, problems like oversizing, misalignment, rotor imbalance, off-design operation, lubrication problems, shaft seals, cavitation, balancing system, and vibration are encountered. Methods of resolving vibration problem diagnosis were discussed using different techniques like vibration design analysis which will enhance root cause problems. We have proposed different maintenance best practice like rotor dynamic balance, appropriate operation, seals selection, and lubricant selection. At the end we have proposed a design solution appropriate for failure prevention using rotor balancing after rework or modifications.
Y40|Determinantes socioeconómicos e institucionales para promover el desarrollo económico local en Nariño, Cundinamarca, municipio de sexta categoría en Colombia|La división político administrativa de Colombia, registra que el país cuenta con un 88,6%2 de municipios categoría sexta3, los cuales presentan condiciones propicias para implementar procesos de desarrollo económico local, entendido este como el liderazgo y protagonismo de los actores locales para la formulación de estrategias y toma de decisiones, haciendo posible la implementación de nuevos proyectos con iniciativas novedosas que potencien los recursos existentes para el aumento las capacidades productivas locales para promover su propio desarrollo y bienestar socioeconómico. Sin embargo, para lograr la implementación de estos procesos, se hace necesario la identificación de los principales determinantes sociales, económicos y políticos para hacer posible que las diversas metodologías o iniciativas para el desarrollo económico local tengan resultados más eficientes. Por lo anterior, este trabajo presenta una propuesta para motivar la construcción de una herramienta que apoye la identificación de los determinantes socioeconómicos e institucionales que inciden en la implementación de procesos de desarrollo económico local, a partir de las percepciones mismas de la comunidad sobre el estado del desarrollo local (índice de confianza). No se pretende imponer una metodología, pero si orientar la necesidad de crear instrumentos para tomar decisiones en la posible intervención, previendo el menor riesgo y la optimización de recursos que las comunidades e instituciones (agentes) deben incurrir.
Y40|Disponibilidad, Consumo y Utilización Biológica de Alimentos en Bolivia: Análisis y Perspectivas (1990-2030)|El presente documento, evalúa cuatro dimensiones de la Seguridad Alimentaria (i.e. disponibilidad, soberanía, estabilidad y consumo y utilización biológica).Encontrando brechas para los grupos de alimentos de: frutas y verduras, proteínas y carbohidratos, a partir de comparar la oferta de cada producto con los requerimientos nutricionales mínimos de la población boliviana en el periodo de 1990 al 2012. El resultado más relevante de la investigación es que por grupo de alimento, sólo el grupo de carbohidratos cumple con las dimensiones estudiadas. Tanto el grupo de proteínas, como el de frutas y verduras, no cumplen con ninguna dimensión. También se evidencia que existen factores culturales que inciden sustancialmente en la alimentación. Así mismo no existen incentivos, ni políticas de seguridad alimentaria a largo plazo, por lo que se genera una situación de vulnerabilidad. Estas brechas nutricionales son indicadores de desnutrición y desabastecimiento de alimentos.
Y40|Identity And Otherness In The Novel ”Ambigen”. An Existence File Of Octav Șuluțiu|"’’Ambigen"" by Octav Şuluţiu is a diary type novel, a subjective, first person confession like the ones of Max Blecher, Mihail Sebastian. Character-narrator explores, analyzes his deepest, hidden emotions, feelings, weaknesses, defects, demons, impossible loves,visions of the world. It is actually an investigation of the subconscious states of a man-woman who hides two genders: male and female, hence the dual nature of the character, bigender. There is an inner battle between the character's masculine and feminine side.The woman inside him needs another woman he can own and the man inside wants a strong woman who can have the male features that he lacks."
Y40|Does Indonesian National Health Insurance serve a potential for improving health equity in favour of workers in informal economy?|This study examines whether Indonesian national health insurance system promotes health equity in favour of informal economy workers. It first lays out the theoretical justification on the need of social protection, particularly health protection for informal workers. The paper argues that the absence of health protection for vulnerable informal workers in Indonesia has reinforced health inequity between formal and informal workers, thus provides a justification on extending health protection to this segment. It then boils down its analysis on existing BPJS Health scheme, a government-run national health insurance, and to what extent this scheme serves the needs of informal workers in Indonesia. The finding suggests that several factors (contributory premium, access to healthcare services and politicisation of national healthcare) are responsible for adversely incorporating informal workers; hence fail to promote health equity in favour of vulnerable workers in informal economy.
Y40|Skrivhandledning. För doktorander i ekonomisk historia vid Göteborgs universitet|This is a guide to writing a doctoral thesis at the Department for Economy and Society, specifically directed at the unit for Economic History, at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden. It is written in Swedish but also applies to Ph.D. students writing in English or other languages at the university. Denna handledning ska fungera som en mall och kontrollista för doktorander i ekonomisk historia som skriver på svenska eller engelska. Den ska kunna vara ett stöd under hela doktorandtiden och doktoranden ska kunna gå tillbaks till den när hen kör fast i skrivandet. Den erbjuder tips i texthantering, skrivarbete, korrekturläsning och som avslutning några tips på vidare läsning.
Y40|Measuring, Assessing And Reporting The Intellectual Capital In A Sme|The trends of the XXI-st century (the knowledge based economy, society, organization and management) promote, on a large scale, the capitalization of the intellectual capital. Therefore, the field specialists have tried to define the concept of intellectual capital, to determine its characteristics and also its components. Also, in order for this capitalization to be used in adopting and implementing some management decisions, specialists determined the models for measuring, assessing and reporting the intellectual capital. Consequently, this article presents a few theoretical concepts regarding the intellectual capital, but also a case study regarding the methodology for applying, drawing and using the model of Patricia Pablos within S.C. ”BAF Consultancy” S.R.L.
Y40|Einfluss des Verhaltens von Inhaber-Unternehmern auf Innovationen und deren Erfolg in ihren Unternehmen. Eine empirische Studie nach der Grounded-Theory-Methodologie|Unternehmer koennen eine aktive Rolle in ihren eigenen Unternehmen spielen: Sie sind dann gleichzeitig Eigentuemer, Fuehrungskraft und stehen in der operativen Verantwortung. Fuer das UEberleben der Unternehmen sind Innovationen essentiell: Ohne Innovation entsteht kein Produkt. Wie sich Unternehmer beim Hervorbringen von Innovationen verhalten, ist aber weitgehend unbekannt – und damit auch, welches Verhalten sich positiv und welches sich negativ auf eine Innovation auswirkt. Ueber dieses Verhalten von Unternehmern bei der Hervorbringung von Innovationen wird ein Modell auf der Grundlage einer empirischen Studie gebildet. Die Untersuchung ist als empirisch-qualitative Exploration angelegt und folgt der klassischen Grounded-Theory-Methodologie (GTM) nach Barney Glaser. Mit der GTM wird eine gegenstandsbezogene, d.h. auf das untersuchte Fachgebiet bezogene, Theorie ueber das Verhalten der Befragten aufgestellt. In der internationalen Untersuchung werden in 13 Unternehmen insgesamt 30 Innovationen ausgewertet. Ueber episodische Interviews nach Flick werden sowohl Erinnerungen an erfolgreiche als auch an misslungene Innovationen erhoben. Neben den Unternehmern werden auch deren Mitarbeiter und Fuehrungskraefte befragt. Das Modell erklaert das Verhalten der Unternehmer im Kontext von Innovationen: Sie fokussieren sich selektiv auf bestimmte Aufgabenbereiche. Das Modell zeigt auch, wie diese Aufgabenbereiche gestaltet sind und was dort geschieht, worauf die Unternehmer eben nicht ihre Aufmerksamkeit richten. Hier zeigen sich Ursachen fuer Erfolg und Misserfolg. Im Anschluss an die Modellbildung wird gezeigt, dass die Ergebnisse im Einklang mit etablierten Theorien und Konzepten aus der Entrepreneurship-Forschung, der Organisations- und der Marketingforschung sowie motivationstheoretischen Ansaetzen stehen.
Y40|Requirements to Doctor’s Theses and Innovations of Regulation on Awarding Academic Degrees|(The Case of Economics) The paper analyzes the characteristics of quantitative standards of the new Regulation on awarding academic degrees using the statistical publication activity of seekers of the degree of doctor in economics in the first half of 2013 in the context of each scientific field. The author conducts stress tests of works of doctoral students to meet requirements of the new Regulation on the basis of detailed analysis of the data. The paper is aimed for discussion, especially from the point of view of increasing requirements to work applicants and their justification.
Y40|Authenticity And Polemic In The Dramaturgy Of Camil Petrescu|Authenticity is closely related to the expression of sincere feelings, thoughts, without regard to any rule. Camil Petrescu is a follower of lucidity and absolute sincerity, everything must be under the control of reason, including the most ineffable impulses.The whole work of the writer is an act of existence, Camil Petrescu being trapped in the game without escape of the iele, just like his heroes, searching relentlessly the absolute idea which necessarily involves substantiality.This authenticity blends with the polemic that opposes the writer's own vision to an other vision which seems to him insufficient, inaccurate or false.
Y40|Disponibilidad, consumo y utilización biológica de alimentos en Bolivia: análisis y perspectivas (1990-2030)|El presente documento evalúa cuatro dimensiones de la seguridad alimentaria (i.e., disponibilidad, soberanía, estabilidad y consumo y utilización biológica), encontrando brechas para los siguientes grupos de alimentos: frutas y verduras, proteínas y carbohidratos, a partir de la comparación de la oferta de cada producto con los requerimientos nutricionales mínimos de la población boliviana en el periodo 1990-2012. El resultado más relevante de la investigación es que, por grupo de alimento, sólo el grupo de carbohidratos cumple con las dimensiones estudiadas. Tanto el grupo de proteínas como el de frutas y verduras no cumplen con ninguna dimensión. También se evidencia que existen factores culturales que inciden sustancialmente en la alimentación. Asimismo, no existen incentivos ni políticas de seguridad alimentaria a largo plazo, por lo que se genera una situación de vulnerabilidad. Estas brechas nutricionales son indicadores de desnutrición y desabastecimiento de alimentos.
Y40|Per un’alterità politica del sindacato|"L’intervento ricostruisce brevemente il rapporto tra sindacato e politica nel Secondo dopoguerra, in Italia, distinguendo tre diverse fasi: una prima fase di sussidiarietà del sindacato rispetto all’egemonia del partito politico, seguita da un momento di forte discontinuità il cosiddetto ""pansindacalismo"" - e un’ultima fase caratterizzata dalla ""concertazione"". L’autore si interroga quindi sulla fase attuale per comprendere le ragioni di una sempre più fo te spinta della politica contro ogni logica concertativa. Tale opposizione si associa alla destrutturazione in atto delle categorie del politico progressivamente sostituite da un paradigma del potere di matrice tecnocratica che prescrive l’esercizio del governo da parte di un leader e offusca tanto lo spessore di qualsiasi progetto politico quanto la partecipazione del corpo sociale alla vita democratica. Il sindacato non può adeguarsi a questo svuotamento della politica e nemmeno opporvisi con una strategia restaurativa, comunque subalterna, ma deve promuovere un nuovo modello sociale a partire dalla propria ""alterità"" progettuale e organizzativa."
Y40|La construcción del lugar. La plaza en los pueblos del Instituto Nacional de Colonización|This article analyses the mechanisms that were used by the Instituto Nacional de Colonización (INC) for designing new villages. In particular, we study the importance of the plaza or town square, understood as a meaningful urban element. This involves an examination of the implications of the plaza in urban design, as well as its role in the construction of images for those who came to inhabit villages in areas that had been turned into land for irrigation during the second half of the 20th century. The villages in this study include some of the best known examples of Francoist colonisation. Our representative sample covers 63 of 300 villages built by the INC in Extremadura between 1947 and 1971, and spans most of the INC’s period of operation. We study the relationship between international changes and local transformation of the concept of representative urban space: the transition from traditional village models to modernising ones.
Y40|Invecchiare. Uno sguardo sulla vita|"L’invecchiare porta ad avere una visione della vita nel suo insieme e a considerare il suo senso. Per questo si richiede una conversione del proprio stato d’animo, andando oltre le occupazioni quotidiane. Su una tale via veniamo a comprendere che la senilità è anche una produzione sociale, la quale è basata su stereotipi riguardanti la rappresentazione del tempo, dello spazio, delle relazioni. Ci sono però modi molteplici dell’invecchiare e occorre distinguerli, per evitare di cadere in un indebito livellamento. Ciò nonostante, siamo in grado di mettere a fuoco un modello generale di vita che esercita un effetto negativo sulla condizione dell’anziano: la riduzione della vita nella sua totalità alla sola capacità di produrre e consumare. La persona, contratta nel ruolo di produttore-consumatore, si rende incapace di coltivare le altre dimensioni dell’umano, quali l’agire e il contemplare. L’autore sostiene che una ""vita buona"" deve intrecciare lavoro, azione e contemplazione. La persona anziana ha per forza di cose un carico minore di lavoro e deve ponderare necessariamente la quantità di energie da dedicare all’azione; per questi stessi motivi la senilità può custodire i semi di una svolta antropologica, la quale porti all’equilibrio e alla pienezza dell’umano."
Y40|Le vere colpe dei padri: riforme sbagliate e riforme mancate|L’articolo prende le mosse dal chiedersi perché l’Italia sia oggi un Paese senza forma, avviluppato in una crisi al tempo stesso economico-sociale e politico-istituzionale. Si sostiene che tutto questo è il risultato di una lunga catena di scelte sbagliate e di scelte mancate in tema di sistema elettorale, riforme istituzionali e politiche del lavoro. Ripercorrere gli snodi essenziali delle occasioni perdute nell’ultimo ventennio è quindi una operazione necessaria, preliminare all’individuazione di una possibile via d’uscita alla crisi italiana.
Y40|Apprendere a cambiare la formazione nei processi d'invecchiamento attivo|"Il contributo cerca di delineare un certo modo di concepire la prospettiva dell’invecchiamento attivo e un certo modo di ragionare sul tema dell’apprendimento permanente, con particolare riguardo a quello in età avanzata - nonché di connettere i due ordini di considerazioni. Per il primo aspetto, l’ipotesi interpretativa è incentrata sulla nozione di ""arco della vita"", nel tentativo di mostrare che il ""discorso"" dell’invecchiamento attivo partecipa di questioni iscritte nel cuore della nostra intera vicenda esistenziale; per il secondo, il riferimento è costituito dall’impostazione delle attività formative che variamente si dice interattiva, esperienziale, narrativa, laboratoriale. Sullo sfondo, in entrambi i casi, il cosiddetto ""approccio delle capacità"", in base al quale, si ritiene, la connessione dei due argomenti può essere esplorata nelle sue ragioni di fondo e nelle sue implicazioni più significative."
Y40|Autonomia della persona, socialità, cittadinanza attiva|L’invecchiamento della popolazione è un fenomeno demografico che interessa tutti i Paesi sviluppati, i cui effetti sulla composizione sociale ne fanno un tema politico di prima grandezza. La politica attuale, in Italia e in Europa, non coglie la straordinaria complessità del problema e tutte le sue implicazioni e affronta l’emergenza sociale con i tecnicismi di una gestione contabile, innalzando forzosamente l’età pensionabile. I drammatici effetti di questa strategia sull’occupazione, sul mercato del lavoro e sul sistema di welfare fanno dell’invecchia-mento un nodo politico. Infatti, la precarietà lavorativa e le crescenti condizioni di povertà della popolazione mette in gioco i diritti costituzionali di cittadinanza, di uguaglianza e di rispetto delle dignità dei cittadini. Di fronte al generalizzato adeguamento al paradigma liberista e all’assenza di un confronto politico, il sindacato sostiene l’esercizio della cittadinanza attiva in tutte le fasi della vita attraverso il progetto sociale che promuove socialità e autonomia della persona. L’efficacia dell’azione sindacale ha nel territorio e nella negoziazione sociale la sua verifica.
Y40|Problematising the Effect of Rural - Urban Linkages on Food Secutiry and Malnutrition in Guatemala´s Western Highlands|Strong rural-urban linkages are increasingly seen as key to achieving sustainable livelihoods and food security in developing countries. However, not all linkages are positive and, although this is recognised in literature, few explore their potential unfavorable characteristics. Based on twelve weeks fieldwork in Guatemala this paper aims to contribute in four ways. Firstly, it details the extent of rural-urban linkages in the lives of ordinary Guatemalans, the reasons for their existence and the contribution they make to food security. Secondly, it highlights the existence of rural-urban criminal networks that negatively impact livelihoods and food security. Thirdly, it illustrates how poor quality linkages in government administration and service provision render them ineffective in alleviating food insecurity and malnutrition. Finally, by focusing on the case of Coca-Cola, it illustrates how extensive rural-urban networks of processed food and drink companies bring with them economic benefits, but adversely affect food security and nutrition through a number of mechanisms. The paper concludes that in order to better design policies aimed at improving livelihoods, food security and nutrition, the growth of rural-urban linkages in different spheres of private and public life should be analysed for its negative as well as positive contributions.
Y40|Role of Vernacular FM stations in National Cohesion and Intergration in Kenya|In a development context, media has been characterized as innovator and mobiliser of positive transformation and this research dissertation has been written to establish the extent to which Kenyan media institutions, vernacular FM stations, have enhanced national cohesion and integration of the Kenyan society. The NCIC, a government statutory body, has been tasked with the major objective of promoting and ensuring the cohesion and integration, is achieved. There has been in depth association of this body and the media fraternity in Kenya and more so the local vernacular FM stations in the study. The methodology in this research gives the style, tools of collecting data from the respondents who were chosen from the specific vernacular Fm stations. The data presentation was done by use of SPSS software and depicting tabular and graphical presentation. The summary of findings in chapter five critically looks at the diagrammatic and tabular presentation for the easy use of the would be disseminator with a compressive conclusion
Y40|Supply chain configuration under information sharing|This paper examines the effect of information sharing on supply chain configuration where the market characterized by demand uncertainty. A dynamic multi-stage game theoretic model with incomplete information is employed to capture the sequence of events. Our supply chain consists of two suppliers with exogenous wholesale prices and two retailers, the incumbent and the entrant, with asymmetric demand information. Informed incumbent prefers to conceal its private information from the entrant in order to reap more profits in the market. The channel of information flows is only through the first supplier and the incumbent can supply just from him, but the entrant is free to choose its proper supplier considering the point that the second supplier is uninformed. Our analytical model demonstrates that how the mean demand of the market, wherein our retailers compete, and its relation with the relative wholesale price of the suppliers play crucial role in equilibrium determination. Our results show under which circumstances separation and pooling equilibrium could occur in some range of demand variation. It is also shown that the entrant sometimes prefers to avoid information acquisition by choosing the second supplier and playing Cournot instead of Stackelberg which is more profitable for him in some occasions.
Y40|Is Economic Integration Between Developing Countries a Singular Process?|This paper examines the economic integration processes among developing countries and developed nations. It looks into the possible existence of a general theory of economic integration and the reflection is carried out on three levels. The first is theoretical even normative, analyzing the concept of economic integration in various fields. The next is descriptive, which is based on the presentation of the initiatives (past and present) of economic integration. Finally, there is comparative where two main results are established. First is that the characteristics of the processes of economic integration are sufficiently flexible to reflect at the same time the processes of economic integration between developing countries and those between developed countries. Second is that economic integration is seen as a phenomenon with multiple dimensions and shapes and also as a process and the product of this process.
Y40|Changing Fiscal Policy Actions, Economic Growth and Inflation in Nigeria, 1980-2009|The study analyzed the trend of fiscal policy actions in Nigeria and investigated the rationale behind the changing fiscal policy thrust in the country as well determined the effects of fiscal policy actions on economic growth and inflation in Nigeria between 1980 and 2009. This was with a view to appraising macroeconomic performance in the light of policy formulation and implementation in Nigeria. The study variables included total expenditure, fiscal deficit (as percent of real GDP), money supply (M1), inflation and real GDP. Time series data obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria statistical bulletins (2008, 2009) which were then decomposed into quarterly form using the quadratic sum match procedure in EViews from 1980:1 to 2009:4 were employed in the analysis and estimation. Descriptive and econometric techniques such as OLS and VAR were employed after the model for estimation was specified given necessary theoretical foundations and adaptations. The empirical results from our trend analyses revealed that total expenditure expanded dramatically while the fiscal deficit fluctuated with the highest decline in mid-1995. The money supply and real GDP also kept rising while inflation experienced swings during the course of the study period. The Chow Breakpoint test revealed that there was a structural change in fiscal policy in the country in 1986 for the F-statistic (4.0680) and the probability limit (p-value) of 0.0021 were statistically significant. Moreover, from our VAR results, we found that there was an inverse relationship between the previous year real output and current year inflation in Nigeria ( t-statistic = -1.92, p
Y40|Applications in Agent-Based Computational Economics|A constituent feature of adaptive complex system are non-linear feedback mechanisms between actors. This makes it often difficult to model and analyse them. Agent-based Computational Economics (ACE) uses computer simulation methods to represent such systems and analyse non-linear processes. The aim of this thesis is to explore ways of modelling adaptive agents in ACE models. Its major contribution is of a methodological nature. Artificial intelligence and machine learning methods are used to represent agents and learning processes in ACE models. In this work, a general reinforcement learning framework is developed and realised in a simulation system. This system is used to implement three models of increasing complexity in two different economic domains. One of these domains are iterative games in which agents meet repeatedly and interact. In an experimental labour market, it is shown how statistical discrimination can be generated simply by means of the learning algorithm used. The aim of this model is mainly to illustrate the features of the learning framework. The results resemble actual patterns of observed human behaviour in laboratory settings. The second model treats strategic network formation. The main contribution here is to show how agent-based modelling helps to analyse non-linearity that is introduced when assumptions of perfect information and full rationality are relaxed. The other domain has a Health Economics background. The aim here is to provide insights of how the approach might be useful in real-world applications. For this, a general model of primary care is developed, and the implications of different consumer behaviour (based on the learning features introduced before) analysed.
Y40|Macroeconomic instability in Afghanistan: causes and solutions|This dissertation contributes to an increasing literature on macroeconomic instability in developing countries. It makes a critical review of the literature and classifies the sources of instability under exogenous and endogenous factors. It then argues that the impact of exogenous shocks is determined by the structural characteristics of the economy which act as a risk-management mechanism. The paper also explains that macroeconomic instability is both a cause and a reflection of underdevelopment. Whilst macroeconomic instability constraints the long-term growth and thus development, it is also the result of the co-existence of various ‘underdeveloped structures’ in the economy. The paper also presents a case study on Afghanistan. Through a diagnostic approach, it identifies the sources of instability in the country and proposes a series of policies and reforms in order to overcome macroeconomic instability in Afghanistan.
Y40|"Improving biodiversity monitoring by modeling relative abundance from ""presence only"" data"|One of the greatest concerns of this age is finding definitive ways to curb the loss of biodiversity. Although there have been growing calls on biodiversity protection and conservation by governments and institutions, the challenge lies on fitting models that best explain the trends of target species over space and time. The objective of this project was to determine the probability of detection of four species and how it changes with time during the season. Also, the occupancy of each species and its relationship with abundance was obtained. Siteoccupancy models were fitted to the data, with each model having four components; occupancy, colonization, extinction and detection probability. Model selection was done on the basis of the AIC criterion. The results show different trends for each species over time. The occupancies of each species do reflect the abundances in the various stages of their life cycles. The colonization, extinction and detection probability estimates were also obtained at each time point.
Y40|The impact of power market reforms on electricity price-cost margins and cross-subsidy levels: A cross country panel data analysis|One of the main expectations from power market reform has been a reduction in both price-cost margins and cross-subsidy levels between industrial and residential consumers. This paper focuses on this issue by looking at the impact of the electricity industry reforms on residential and industrial electricity price-cost margins and their effect on cross-subsidy levels between consumer groups. Using panel data for 63 developed and developing countries covering the period 1982-2009, empirical models are developed and analyzed. The research findings suggest that there is no uniform pattern for the impact of reform process as a whole on price-cost margins and cross-subsidy levels. Each individual reform step has different impact on price-cost margins and cross-subsidy levels for each consumer and country group. Our findings imply that reform steps have different impacts in different countries, which supports the idea reform prescription for a specific country cannot easily and successfully be transferred to another one. So, transferring the formal and economic structure of a successful power market in a developed country to developing countries is not a sufficient condition for good economic performance of the electricity industries in developing countries. Furthermore, the study suggests that power consumption, income level and country-specific features constitute other important determinants of electricity price-cost margins and cross-subsidy levels.
Y40|Towards systematic understanding of institutional interests in current agenda items at the world radiocommunication conference|The World Radiocommunication Conference (WRC) serves as a forum to negotiate, review, and revise the Radio Regulations (RR), an international treaty and one of the most difficult regulations for radiocommunication services. RR is complex since it includes intergovernmental issues in relation to regulation covering technical, legal and societal aspects. A large number of parties are interested and involved in revising RR and creating supranational instruments for optimal management of the spectrum. As a consequence, it can be difficult for one involved stakeholder to see its own position and other relevant issues directly influencing them in relation to the whole work of WRC and its subprocesses. A systematic analysis of the main decision-making process would contribute to better understanding of the role of WRC and positions of the involved parties. The aim of the paper is to contribute to better understanding of the role of the WRC with a focus on the current agenda items. Agenda items are specified issues from RR that need to be handled at an actual conference. The point of departure is using the institutional analysis and development (IAD) framework [see Ostrom (2011)] to gain a suitable institutional overview of the main decision-making process and its sub-processes. The IAD framework has the capacity to explain jointly produced outcomes, such as negotiating an international treaty depending on multiple inputs and different priority levels. Also, it can be used to enhance the understanding of WRC matters in order to improve the decision-making process by focusing on the main interactions and involved parties in relation to the possible outcomes of the WRC. The paper is based on data obtained from historical documents, content analysis, literature review, observations, and interviews. The results of this paper illustrate the benefits of the IAD framework in the context of the WRC, especially for the process of agenda setting and study cycles. The practical implications are important for policy makers, for example, since it highlights critical actors, events, and interactions aligned with the main activities of WRC. A stakeholder will better understand its own position and its possibility for control, both in relation to the overall process and the sub-processes important for agenda items in which it has an interest. It will gain understanding not only of the overall role of WRC, but also of its own possibilities to intervene during the process of revision of RR so that it could protect its interests - e.g., with more proper contribution in the suitable forums with the expected outcome.
Y40|Project Management Methodology for University-Industry Collaborative Projects|University-industry collaborative (UIC) in Malaysia has received very little research attention in the literature. Furthermore, worldwide development of UIC project management approaches has been carried out without due consideration of the unique attributes associated neither with this specific environment nor with the high degree of uncertainty intrinsically associated with research projects. This investigation leverages on the available literature, interviews with university-industry research partners and our own works to understand the nature of UIC R&D. This work focuses particular attention on the factors that relate to current project management practices and the methodology applied. It present the findings of qualitative interviews conducted with respondents from universities and industries involved in collaborative R&D projects in Malaysia. Two aspects were investigated; the development process and project management practices in UIC. The study concludes by presenting an outline of the requirements and components required of a project management methodology (PMM) designed specifically for the management of UIC projects. It will provide valuable information and insights to both universities and industries on how to embark on designing a PMM specifically for use in the UIC research environment.
Y40|Die monetaere Quantifizierung des personalen Faktors im Rahmen von Unternehmensbewertungen|Der personale Faktor bildet einen wesentlichen Bestandteil von Unternehmenswerten. Obgleich in der Vergangenheit eine Vielzahl von personalen Bewertungsansaetzen herausgearbeitet wurde, existieren bis zum gegenwaertigen Zeitpunkt weder ein einheitlicher Standard noch allgemein ak-zeptierte Bewertungskriterien. Tatsaechlich stoesst die Bewertung des personalen Faktors auch auf Widerstaende in Unternehmen und Bewertungsinstitutionen, da den Ansaetzen haeufig ein Bezug zu den etablierten Methoden der Unternehmensbewertung fehlt und ein moeglicher Wertansatz in den Jahresabschluessen nicht den gegenwaertig geltenden Vorschriften entspraeche. Der Autor entwickelt deshalb betriebswirtschaftliche Ansaetze zur Quantifizierung des personalen Faktors, die auf wissenschaftlichen Methoden der Unternehmensbewertung basieren. Zunaechst werden die Grundzuege wesentlicher Unternehmensbewertungsverfahren erlaeutert und bestehende personale Bewertungsansaetze kritisch gewuerdigt. Anschliessend werden auf der Grundlage des Personalvermoegens-Konzeptes mehrere moegliche Quantifizierungsansaetze bewertungstheoretisch diskutiert. Schliesslich wird ein ertragsorientiertes Bewertungsschema herausgearbeitet, welches kuenftige Handlungsoptionen beruecksichtigt.
Y40|Integration bei Mergers & Acquisitions.Eine empirische Studie des Human Resource Managements aus Sicht des ressourcenbasierten Ansatzes|Mergers & Acquisitions sind ein haeufiges Phaenomen in der heutigen Wirtschaftswelt, mit hohen Misserfolgsraten von ca. 50 bis 70 Prozent. Falsches oder mangelndes Management personeller Faktoren ist haeufig dafuer verantwortlich. Im vorliegenden Buch wird das Human Resource Management in der Integrationsphase von Mergers & Acquisitions genauer untersucht. Besonders personelle Faktoren werden im Prozess der Zusammenfuehrung von Unternehmen zu wenig beachtet oder zu wenig bewusst gesteuert. Ziel der Arbeit ist es, Human Resource Management Massnahmen erfolgreicher und weniger erfolgreicher Unternehmen zu vergleichen. Basierend auf der Theorie des Resource-based View wurde dies mittels einer breit angelegten quantitativen Studie von Unternehmen in Deutschland und oesterreich als Teil des internationalen Forschungsprojekts Cranet untersucht.
Y40|Sprachliche Legitimation von Personalabbaumaßnahmen. Eine Argumentations- und Metaphernanalyse der Massenkommunikation zweier Großbanken|Wie versuchen Unternehmen, ihre Entscheidungen gegenüber ihren zentralen Anspruchsgruppen (Shareholder, Arbeitnehmer, Öffentlichkeit etc.) sprachlich zu „verkaufen“? Und wie setzen sie hierzu die ihnen zur Verfügung stehenden öffentlichen Medien der Massenkommunikation (Geschäftsberichte, Mitarbeiterzeitungen etc.) ein? Mit diesen beiden Fragen beschäftigt sich dieses Buch im Kontext der Legitimation von Personalabbaumaßnahmen. Denn gerade diese manageriale Praktik stößt häufig auf Widerstände – sei es, weil sie gegen normative Regeln verstößt, den Eigeninteressen der Anspruchsgruppen zuwiderläuft oder als Zeichen einer Krise gedeutet wird. Aus diesem Grund haben Unternehmen hier ein besonderes Interesse daran, dass ihr Verhalten als legitim wahrgenommen wird. Empirisch werden hier die sprachlichen Legitimationspolitiken von Unternehmen an zwei konkreten Fällen in der deutschen Kreditwirtschaft (Großbanken) untersucht. Dabei stehen zwei sprachliche Mittel im Mittelpunkt der Analyse: Argumentationen und Metaphern.
Y40|Human Capital Externalities and Growth|This paper provides evidence of positive externalities in human capital that help to explain divergences in development worldwide. We estimate the supply and demand for human capital using a five-year panel involving 60 countries, covering the period 1980-2000, and found that there exists positive externalities in human capital accumulation close to one. This translates into increasing returns to scale and increasing marginal returns in human capital.
Y40|Human Capital Externalities and Growth|This paper provides evidence of positive externalities in human capital that help to explain divergences in development worldwide. We estimate the supply and demand for human capital using a five-year panel involving 60 countries, covering the period 1980-2000, and found that there exists positive externalities in human capital accumulation close to one. This translates into increasing returns to scale and increasing marginal returns in human capital.
Y40|Importancia de las rigideces nominales y reales en Colombia: un enfoque de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico|Este artículo pretende determinar qué conjunto de rigideces nominales y reales se debe incluir en un modelo DSGE para replicar la dinámica de las variables agregadas de la economía colombiana. Con este fin, se estiman varios modelos DSGE con distintas combinaciones de rigideces nominales y reales usando métodos bayesianos. Los resultados indican que el ajuste empírico del modelo está determinado, en orden de importancia, por la rigidez de salarios, la rigidez de los precios domésticos, los costos de ajuste a la inversión, el tipo de indexación que se tenga y la rigidez de los precios importados. Con respecto a la dinámica de corto plazo del modelo, la sensibilidad ante un choque de política monetaria depende en mayor medida de las rigideces de salarios, del tipo de indexación de precios y salarios y de los costos de ajuste de la inversión.
Y40|Importancia de las rigideces nominales y reales en Colombia: un enfoque de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico|Este artículo pretende determinar qué conjunto de rigideces nominales y reales se debe incluir en un modelo DSGE para replicar la dinámica de las variables agregadas de la economía colombiana. Con este fin, se estiman varios modelos DSGE con distintas combinaciones de rigideces nominales y reales usando métodos bayesianos. Los resultados indican que el ajuste empírico del modelo está determinado, en orden de importancia, por la rigidez de salarios, la rigidez de los precios domésticos, los costos de ajuste a la inversión, el tipo de indexación que se tenga y la rigidez de los precios importados. Con respecto a la dinámica de corto plazo del modelo, la sensibilidad ante un choque de política monetaria depende en mayor medida de las rigideces de salarios, del tipo de indexación de precios y salarios y de los costos de ajuste de la inversión.
Y40|Importancia de las rigideces nominales y reales en Colombia : un enfoque de equilibrio general dinámico y estocástico|Estudia qué conjunto de rigideces nominales y reales se debe incluir en un modelo DSGE para replicar la dinámica de las variables agregadas de la economía colombiana. Con este fin, se estiman varios modelos DSGE con distintas combinaciones de rigideces nominales y reales usando métodos bayesianos. Se discuten los mecanismos de formación de precios y salarios.
Y40|Ein bedingungsloses Grundeinkommen in Form der negativen Einkommensteuer: Eine soziologische und finanzwissenschaftliche Analyse<BR>[An unconditional basic income in the form of the negative income tax: A sociological an public finance analysis]|In this thesis, the idea of an unconditional basic income is investigated by means of sociological and public finance analyses, with results about structural problems of the Austrian tax and transfer system building the starting point. The unconditional basic income in the form of a negative income tax is therefore discussed and tentatively developed. It is suggested that the negative income tax should be granted unconditionally and individually to all legal and permanent residents without the obligation of services in return. Besides the negative lump sum tax, a lump sum supplement should be granted for caregivers, honorary workers and people incapable of working. Based on a person’s own income a positive tax should be counted against the negative income tax. With the implementation of the suggested model of a negative income tax, basic (financial) needs could be secured and the tax and transfer system could be harmonized, whereby administration effort could be reduced and poverty traps avoided. It is stressed that for the implementation of a comprehensive model of a negative income tax all relevant parameters as well as possible impacts need to be investigated cautiously; suggestions of this thesis therefore need to be seen as a first attempt. The attitude towards an unconditional basic income furthermore influences its successful implementation. Results suggest that great importance needs to be laid on the designation of the model as well as the conservation of the performance principle and self-responsibility to ensure a successful transformation.
Y40|Research Skill: Operationalizing a Definition|"The focus of the analysis is the tool for designing a definition, expressing the nature of a concept and the opportunity to apply this tool in economic research. The selected approach is a conceptual analysis of the relation ""concept (necessity and sufficiency) – the definition as a cognitive explication – the contents of the definition (mainly of an economic object) -characteristics and varieties (fundamental and contextual, stipulating, etc) of the economic definition"". The applicability of the fundamental theory was proven to define a concept of an object and some general deficits of this process are identified in the economic studies. The output rules are summarized for elaborating such an economic information."
Y40|Erfolgsfaktoren der Karriere. Eine Analyse objektiv erfassbarer Praediktoren des beruflichen Erfolgs bei deutschen Akademikern|Welche Faktoren bestimmen die Karriere? Was kann man tun, um moeglichst erfolgreich zu sein? Gibt es Faktoren, die die beruflichen Chancen erhoehen? Worauf muss an bestimmten Punkten der Laufbahn geachtet werden? Inwiefern ist der Karriereerfolg tatsaechlich prognostizierbar? Diese Fragen und damit die Auseinandersetzung mit den Ursachen des beruflichen Erfolgs und den Moeglichkeiten, diesen zu beeinflussen, gehoeren fuer Arbeitnehmer sicherlich zu den meistgestellten. Ziel dieser Arbeit ist es aufzuzeigen, welche Faktoren einen nachweisbaren Einfluss auf die Karriere von Akademikern besitzen, und daraus praktische Handlungsempfehlungen abzuleiten. Darueber hinaus liefert die Arbeit Hinweise fuer Arbeitnehmer und Personalverantwortliche, auf welche Aspekte im Rahmen von Bewerbungs- und Befoerderungsentscheidungen zu achten ist. Die Arbeit erlaubt ergaenzend eine Auseinanderssetzung mit der Frage, welche wissenschaftlichen Theorien geeignet sind, den Berufserfolg zu prognostizieren. Die Relevanz soziodemographischer, ausbildungsbezogener, beruflicher, motivationaler und unternehmensspezifischer Faktoren auf den Berufserfolg (erfasst ueber Einkommen, hierarchische Position sowie Fuehrungs- und Umsatzverantwortung) wurde in einer Stichprobe von 739 Akademikern anhand von 80 Hypothesen empirisch ausgewertet. Das untersuchte Spektrum deckt dabei ein breites, heterogenes und objektiv erfassbares Set an Faktoren wie soziale Herkunft, Geschwisterposition, Geschlecht, Koerpergroesse, Berufsausbildung, Fremdsprachenkenntnisse, Abiturnote, Studienfach, -dauer, -note, Reputation des Arbeitgebers, Anzahl von Stellen- und Unternehmenswechseln, Internationalitaet der Laufbahn bis hin zu Branche und Unternehmensgroesse ab. Damit leistet die Arbeit einen Beitrag zu einer differenzierteren Diskussion von geschlechts-, karrierephasen- und erfolgsartspezifischen Determinanten des Berufserfolgs.
Y40|Electricity Market Reform: Lessons for developing countries|One of the main targets of power market reforms in the world has been price-cost margins. This paper focuses on this issue by looking at the impact of the power market reforms on the convergence of residential and industrial electricity price-cost margins in diverse countries towards their average value and on cross-subsidy levels between consumer groups. Using panel data for 63 developed and developing countries covering the period 1982–2009, empirical models are developed and analyzed. The research findings suggest that, in most cases, reform process causes price-cost margins in different countries to move towards their average value. Besides, it is found that there is a negative relationship between absolute value of deviation from unit industrial/residential price ratio and the shift towards a competitive market model, meaning that as countries take more reform steps the size of cross subsidy between consumer groups tends to decline. Overall, based on empirical evidence, the study found that application of competitive market models in electricity industries makes electricity price-cost margins converge towards the average and prices more cost-reflective by reducing the size of cross subsidies between industrial and residential consumers, after controlling for industry and country-specific variables. Furthermore, the study suggests that power consumption, income level, electricity losses and country specific features constitute other important determinants of convergence towards average electricity price-cost margin and cross-subsidy levels between consumer groups.
Y40|La monnaie unique europeenne et sa relation au developpement economique et social coordonne : une analyse cliometrique. Tome IV : Annexes|The Economic Cycle Theory, having been a somehow abandoned during several decades, returns to get important with the recent World Financial Crisis 2007-2010. This book, based upon a theses sustained in 2007, advances and argues the possibility of an almost unavoidable world cyclic plunge of macro-economic variables. This includes several political economy recommendations in both national and international scope.
Y40|An inflation expectations horserace|For decades, the academic literature has focused on three survey measures of expected inflation: the Livingston Survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Michigan Survey. While these measures have been useful in developing models of forecasting inflation, the data are low frequency measures which appear anachronistic in the modern era of high frequency and real-time data. I present a collection of 37 different measures of inflation expectations, including many previously unexploited monthly and real-time measures of inflation expectations. These higher frequency measures tend to outperform the standard three low frequency survey measures in tests of accuracy, predictive power, and rationality, indicating that there are benefits to using higher frequency measures of inflation expectations. Out of sample forecasts confirm the findings.
Y40|La monnaie unique europeenne et sa relation au developpement economique et social coordonne : une analyse cliometrique. Tome III : Modele et calculs : une theorie monetaire des Cycles de Kondratieff, l'Euro de 2000 a 2050|The Economic Cycle Theory, having been a somehow abandoned during several decades, returns to get important with the recent World Financial Crisis 2007-2010. This book, based upon a theses sustained in 2007, advances and argues the possibility of an almost unavoidable world cyclic plunge of macro-economic variables. This includes several political economy recommendations in both national and international scope.
Y40|La monnaie unique europeenne et sa relation au developpement economique et social coordonne : une analyse cliometrique. Tome II : Donnees empiriques sur la periode 1800-2000 : histoires economique et monetaire de l'Europe|The Economic Cycle Theory, having been a somehow abandoned during several decades, returns to get important with the recent World Financial Crisis 2007-2010. This book, based upon a theses sustained in 2007, advances and argues the possibility of an almost unavoidable world cyclic plunge of macro-economic variables. This includes several political economy recommendations in both national and international scope.
Y40|La monnaie unique europeenne et sa relation au developpement economique et social coordonne : une analyse cliometrique. Tome I : revue des auteurs et preamble|The Economic Cycle Theory, having been a somehow abandoned during several decades, returns to get important with the recent World Financial Crisis 2007-2010. This book, based upon a theses sustained in 2007, advances and argues the possibility of an almost unavoidable world cyclic plunge of macro-economic variables. This includes several political economy recommendations in both national and international scope.
Y40|Modest expectations: Causes and effects of migration on migrant households in source countries|This research, mainly looking at Albania and Moldova, investigates the reasons why people migrate internationally and send remittances. It also analyses the consequences of internal migration on the wellbeing of migrants and their family and how it affects the relationship between family members. It shows that migrant households earn higher incomes after migration, but are worse off in many aspects, e.g. housing. This is because they live in poor, semi-legal conditions and because migration is an expensive investment. Consequently, family solidarity remains high after migration, especially financial and good transfers.
Y40|Arzt und Patient. Die Dienstleistung zwischen Hausarzt und Patient im deutschen Gesundheitssystem – eine handlungsfundierte Institutionenanalyse|Leitende Frage des Buchs ist: Was sind die spezifischen Merkmale der Beziehung von aerzten und ihren Patienten als personenbezogener Dienstleistung und welchen aktuellen Risiken und Veraenderungen ist sie ausgesetzt? Basis der Bearbeitung dieser Frage sind zum einen empirische Erkenntnisse aus umfangreichen Interviews mit Muenchner Hausaerzten und ihren Patienten, zum anderen institutionentheoretische Analysen der Arzt-Patienten-Beziehung im Rahmen des deutschen Gesundheitssystems. Das Buch zeigt, dass eine theoretisch angeleitete und zugleich empirische unterstuetzte soziologische Dienstleistungsforschung wichtige Beitraege zum Verstaendnis des so oft diskutierten Verhaeltnisses von medizinischen Experten und Betroffenen im Gesundheitswesen liefern kann. Zu den zentralen Einsichten gehoert die immense Bedeutung der direkt koproduzierten Leistung zweier interagierender Akteure mit unterschiedlichen Interessen und Kompetenzen, die es u.a. auch schaffen muessen, sich der Steuerungsversuche durch den Gesetzgeber oder oeffentlichen Diskussionen zur Gestaltung der Arzt-Patienten- Interaktion zu entziehen.
Y40|Truly Non-Cooperative Games: A Unified Theory|"This dissertation introduces ""Truly Non-Cooperative Games"" – axioms and complimentary negotiation models developed to analyse the human ""Struggle for Life"" – and presents ""The Principle of Relative Insularity"", a unified theory of value which unites economics, astrophysics, and biology. In brief, we discover that, reductio ad absurdum, value is a derivative function of relative insularity."
Y40|Can carpooling clean the air? The economics of HOV lanes, hybrid cars and the Clean Air Act|Private vehicles are a significant source of air pollution in many areas of the United States. Areas with already high levels of air pollution are required by the Clean Air Act to take steps to reduce automobile use and the associated emissions. The behavioral implications of many travel demand management techniques are poorly understood. In this dissertation I focus on carpooling. Policy makers encourage commuters to carpool through High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) Lanes, free parking for carpoolers, attempts to connect carpoolers, and casual carpoolers (often called slugging). Despite these e
Y40|Micro-Bargaining as Enhancer of Knowledge Management. A Comparison between Mexico and Germany|Knowledge is a key resource to reach and sustain competitive advantage. Therefore, over the last years, organisations have made several efforts to enhance the creation, storage and leverage of knowledge. Yet, despite vast budgets, several Knowledge Management initiatives have turned out to be fruitless because of the staff's recurrent reluctance to share knowledge. The extent to which such reluctance takes place in organisations is determined to a great amount by two phenomena: (1) organisational culture, which determines whether the staff prefer to share or to hoard knowledge and (2) Darwiportunism, which explains the dynamic of two trends in organisations: competition among organisations and opportunism among their staff. With the aim of finding a way to overcome the reluctance to share knowledge, this research analyses the impact of Micro-Bargaining processes on an organisational environment which fosters Knowledge Management. In order to better analyse the cultural influence, this research adopts a cross-cultural approach and compares the causality of Darwiportunism and Micro-Bargaining on Knowledge Management in two countries: Mexico and Germany.
Y40|La gestion des fonds de fonds islamiques de capital investissement pour le développement des pays arabes|The development in Islam is sustainable and stipulates the meeting between capitals and knowledge through the moudaraba formula that gave birth to the current IF!. The Islamic Private Equity Funds are, theoretically, the solution for the failure of the IF1 in the development processes. The direct investment environment of the Arab countries shows heterogeneity; excess of capital in sorne countries, abundance of hum an and natural resources in others and a modest level of knowledge in most of them. A group of Islamic FoF and MoM that mobilizes the capitals to the knowledge infrastructure, namely the innovation (venture capital), the public services (project finance) and the access of the private sector to the Islamic financial services (Islamic Universal Bank) is proposed. This should bring exceptional revenues on capital, contribute in the sustainable development and reduces poverty in the host countries.
Y40|"L'objectif de la règlementation prudentielle et son rôle dans l'allocation de l'épargne des sociétés d'assurance-vie : le dépassement de Solvency II par une approche ""rendement-risque"""|"This thesis investigates the nature and the objectives of investment prudential regulations in insurance business and its role in asset allocation by insurers. The thesis is divided into the following three parts. Part one explains the importance of insurance sector for savings¤ allocation and allows understanding the need, the nature and the evolution of solvency principles in insurance sector. These prudential rules have been developed with the single objective of telling failures by measuring and controlling the ""risk"". Part two deals with the negative role of these ""mono-factorial"" rules for asset allocation. This historical analysis allows us to characterize the capitalization as the source of motivation for investment reallocation and to examine, in this context, the situation in Europe before the introduction of Solvency II. Part three offers a new theoretical frame to analyze investment prudential regulations and explains theoretically why the ""mono-factorial"" rules influence financial policies of insurance companies. This last part offers a new approach towards prudential regulations, which aims at two objectives ¤ risk control and optimum return. On the basis of this ""bi-factorial"" approach, the thesis offers modifications for Solvency II."
Y40|Beyond GDP - Measuring the Wealth of Nations|This work devotes analysis to the consistency of the idea to measure the Wealth of Nations beyond GDP. Looking at the desirability, utility and feasibility of the concept, the main objective is to outline whether a socially and environmentally adjusted GDP would be able to have a real policy effect in the direction of sustainability. Section I discusses the desirability of the issue and suggests that our current paradigm of progress needs serious rethinking, as it rests on teleological presuppositions prevalent in the 17th and 18th century - an antiquated mechanical world view, developed by Descartes and Newton. In this context, the historical ascendency of GDP is discussed, outlining its rise and demise. Section II then discusses the utility of an adjusted GDP. Departing from an analysis of the growth elasticities of poverty (health and literacy), which gives empirical evidence on the insufficient correlation of GDP per capita and living standards, conventional GDP will then be weight against the alternative measures. An environmental adjustment will thereby be found justified on the ground of efficiency gain effects occurring along the allocation of resources and health expenditure among others, suggesting that the conventional GDP is inefficient and an economically irrational model to guide progress. Concerns will however be raised about the possible inflationary effect of a social adjustment, which is politically unfeasible under the current paradigm of progress and requires further research in terms of measurement techniques. Section III then suggests that the feasibility is a political question. Taking the Case study of the failed Green GDP attempt in China, lessons learnt will be formalised on which I conclude with suggestions under which circumstances an adjusted GDP would be able to have a real policy effect in the direction of sustainability.
Y40|El destino de las remesas en Ecuador: Un análisis microeconómico sobre los factores que determinan su utilización en actividades de inversión|In the present work, the topic of remittances was analyzed froma microeconomic point of view. After the important role of theremittances in the national economy had already emphasized, weproceeded to investigate what are the main determinants that explaintheir investment degree at a national level; this mean, those factors thatinfluence in the remittances recipient agent decision for consume orinvest such income. The period of analysis cover the years 2007, 2008and 2009. During the fieldwork, we found evidence that the majorityof the remittances goes to current consume expenditures (75%) andonly a 21% is destined to investment. Through an econometric model,it was possible to conclude that seven factors cause in a positive anddirect form the investment percentage that a common remittancesrecipient agent can achieve in Ecuador. Taking in account the results ofthe model, the Ecuadorian representative recipient agent could investuntil the 10% of the remittances received from rest of the world.En este trabajo se analizó el tema de las remesas desde un punto devista microeconómico. Luego de destacar el importante papel quecumplen las remesas en la economía nacional, se procedió a investigarcuáles son los determinantes que explican su grado de inversión a nivelnacional; es decir, aquellos factores que influyen en la decisión delagente receptor de remesas para consumir o invertir dicho ingreso. Elperiodo de análisis comprende los años 2007, 2008 y 2009. Durante lainvestigación de campo se encontró evidencia de que la mayor parte delas remesas se destina a gastos de consumo corriente (75%) y apenasun 21% a la inversión. A través de un modelo econométrico se pudoconcluir que son 7 los factores que afectan positiva y directamenteel porcentaje de inversión que puede alcanzar un agente receptor deremesas en Ecuador. Tomando en cuenta los resultados del modelo,el agente receptor representativo de Ecuador puede llegar a invertirhasta el 10% de las remesas que recibe del exterior.
Y40|The Political Economy of Disaster Vulnerability: A Case Study of Pakistan Earthquake 2005|Literature on natural hazards typically perceives disasters to be acts of God (or nature) while restricting the examination of their causes to biophysical and geographical explanations. This paper takes a different approach; first, it argues that disasters are socially constructed and, second, it situates the interactions of large-scale natural forces with local political-economic conditions within the context of vulnerability to contend that disasters are consequences of unresolved development challenges. Using the Pressure and Release (PAR) Model the paper suggests the usefulness of the concept of vulnerability that shapes local geographies of risk and weak institutions which transform and enhance the negative impacts of ‘natural’ hazards into ‘man-made’ disasters.
Y40|Formulating a Research Topic: from Necessary Prerequisites to More Precise Requirements|The current trend is to defend theses with headings which are not precise enough, resulting in inevitable difficulties both for the applicant for doctor’s degree and for the members of the specialized board. The research topic is the object of the analysis and the subject of the analysis is the mechanism of its formulation. Descriptive assessment approach is adopted. The study consists of three topical units: preconditions, requirements and axioms of formulating the research topic. The author has tried to describe the overall technology of formulating such a topic and to point out the most frequent failures of this process.
Y40|NGOs, Global Governance and the UN: NGOs as “Guardians of the Reform of the International System”|No abstract is available for this item.
Y40|Search and the City: Comparing the Use of WiFi in New York, Budapest and Montreal|Over the past five years, the use of mobile and wireless technology in public spaces of cities around the country has grown exponentially. There has been little analysis of the ways in which the use of the wireless Internet via WiFi may differ from that of the wireline Internet. This paper compares the results from a six-month survey of the use of WiFi hotspots in New York, Budapest and Montreal. It is hoped that further analysis of these survey results will contribute to a more acute understanding of the ways in which the user patterns of particular modes of Internet access may differ internationally. The major research questions addressed in this paper are: 1) How is WiFi being used in public spaces, by whom, where, for what purposes?; 2) How does the use of WiFi differ from other communication technology?; and, 3) How is the use of WiFi similar or different across cities internationally? This paper makes the following arguments based on the survey data: first, WiFi is an important factor in attracting people to specific locations; second, the use of WiFi highly localized in that it is often used to search for information relevant to oneÕs geographic location; third, there are significant differences in the way that WiFi is used across a variety of locations including cafes, parks and other public spaces; fourth, at present, WiFi users are, for the most part, young, male and highly educated displaying the characteristics of early adopters of technology; and, fifth, there is a convergence in the ways in which WiFi is used internationally in some respects, however there are also important differences in the reasons for these uses as well divergence in other respects.
Y40|La première rencontre mémorable entre un consommateur et une marque|This doctoral research defines and explores the first memorable encounter between a consumer and a brand. The present research relies on two theoretical roots: multidisciplinary research works about the first encounter, as well as research from the consumer-brand relationship paradigm. Then, Study 1 offers an empirical exploration of the phenomenon, based on a phenomenological qualitative enquiry using different methods of analysis (life story analysis, factorial analysis of correspondence). A general pattern of the first memorable encounter is then developed. Studies 2 and 3 quantitatively investigate part of the pattern. Study 2 tests the antecedents and facets of the encounter¤s memorability using a critical incident technique. Study 3 tests the effect of encounters configurations thanks to an experimental design. Several results are discussed: the comprehension of encounters configurations as well as individual patterns of encounter, the definition of a memorable encounter and its two facets (object-driven memorability and context-driven memorability), its antecedents and consequences.
Y40|Dissertations on Organization and Management in Estonia and Finland 1960-1989|This paper analyses 28 Estonian and 33 Finnish doctoral dissertations on organization and management published between 1960 and 1989. The paper reviews their content and leading theme, methodology and main contributions. The principal thrust of the paper is to compare the evolution of organization and management research in Estonia and Finland and review the impact of the social context of the two countries acting under different economic principles and surroundings. The main conclusion of authors is that organization and management research agendas emerged at a similar time and pace in both countries and developed at a comparable pace and quality. However, the Estonian contributions were more focused in terms of topics while the Finnish counterparts provided topically more fragmented theses with no mainstream appearance. The paper reveals that in Estonia it was still possible to perform organization and management research of considerable quality despite Soviet occupation.
Y40|Using sentiment to predict GDP growth and stock returns|This study sheds new light on the question of whether or not sentiment surveys, and the expectations derived from them, are relevant to forecasting economic growth and stock returns, and whether they contain information that is orthogonal to macroeconomic and financial data. I examine 16 sentiment surveys of distinct respondent universes and employ the technique of principal components analysis to extract the common signals from the surveys. I show that the ability of different population groups to anticipate correctly economic growth and excess stock returns is not identical, implying that not all sentiment is the same, although there exist some common components. I demonstrate that sentiment surveys have significant predictive power for both GDP growth and excess stock returns, and that the results are robust to the inclusion of information pertaining to the macroeconomic environment and momentum. Furthermore, the findings reject the conventional wisdom that the effect of sentiment is apparent exclusively in small-capitalization stocks.
Y40|Using Sentiment Surveys to Predict GDP Growth and Stock Returns|This important book, prepared under the direction of Nobel Laureate Lawrence R. Klein, shows how economic forecasts are made. It explains how modern developments in information technology have made it possible to forecast frequently – at least monthly but also weekly or bi-weekly – depending upon the perceived needs of potential forecast users and also on the availability of updated material.
Y40|Development of relationships in interorganizational networks: studies in the tourism and construction industries|A firm is a type of organizational arrangement often involved in interorganizational networks. Typically, interorganizational networks are the outcome of individuals in firms working together in cooperative groups. Through these individuals firms establish both formal and social relationships. The individuals develop lasting relationships because they share time, interests, goals, industrial, geographical or some other type of relatedness. Shared goals and interests of the relationship become an observable unit built upon various constructs. Interorganizational networks typically involve one or several different types of relationship constructs. This thesis elaborates on different relationship constructs and proposes different roles for each construct. All relationships are studied at a firm level since managers are considered key informants for the firm. The overall research question is: How do relationships in interorganizational networks develop? The main objective is to examine the development of these relationships in interorganizational networks. Deleted two sentences The approach is to synthesize 10 essays on relationships between five constructs – reciprocity, trust, cooperation, interorganizational commitment and loyalty. The results indicate that relationships are based upon a long term orientation. Secondly, relationships develop from certain processes before interaction is initiated. These processes involve the influence of cooperative motives to enter interorganizational networks and preferences upon which potential partners are selected. Furthermore, the initial processes involving motives and preferences expand to include the development of relationships based on friendships, interpersonal commitments, reciprocity and trust. The ultimate outcome of this process is stability and maturity, which means relationships are sustained by dependencies, their initial objectives and the desire to protect. Dependencies are reflected in interorganizational commitment, which means the firms' future intentions and promises strengthen the relationships. The objectives interorganizational networks are founded upon motivate network firms to develop relationships based on cooperative strategies so that shared goals and decisions can be effectively pursued. Finally, the firms typically protect their relationships by developing loyalties. All models represent unique examples of potential relationships and some models are particularly important because they were purified so that convergent, nomological and discriminant validity criteria could be met. The results are consistent with but extend previous research and are considered important for future business studies in general, but particularly within the tourism and construction industries. A practical implication of the research is thus that in evaluating new opportunities, firms should carefully examine the characteristics of potential partners as well as how the partnership might influence the content of their relationships. Another practical implication is that trust and reciprocity should be viewed differently in building successful network partnerships.
Y40|Neural Substrates of Decision-Making in Economic Games|In economic experiments decisions often differ from game-theoretic predictions. Why are people generous in one-shot ultimatum games with strangers? Is there a benefit to generosity toward strangers? Research on the neural substrates of decisions suggests that some choices are hormone-dependent. By artificially stimulating subjects with neuroactive hormones, we can identify which hormones and brain regions participate in decisionmaking, to what degree and in what direction. Can a hormone make a person generous while another stingy? In this paper, two laboratory experiments are described using the hormones oxytocin (OT) and arginine vasopressin (AVP). Concentrations of these hormones in the brain continuously change in response to external stimuli. OT enhances trust (Michael Kosfeld et al. 2005b), reduce fear from strangers (C. Sue Carter 1998), and has anti-anxiety effects (Kerstin Uvnäs-Moberg, Maria Peterson 2005). AVP enhances attachment and bonding with kin in monogamous male mammals (Jennifer N. Ferguson et al. 2002) and increases reactive aggression (C. Sue Carter 2007). Dysfunctions of OT and/or AVP reception have been associated with autism (Miranda M. Lim et al. 2005). In Chapter One I review past experiments with the ultimatum (UG) and dictator (DG) games and visit some of the major results in the literature. In Chapter Two I present the results of my laboratory experiment where I examine why people are generous in one-shot economic games with strangers. I hypothesize that oxytocin would enhance generosity in the UG. Players in the OT group were much more generous than those in the placebo—OT offers in the UG were 80% higher than offers on placebo. Enhanced generosity was not due to altruism as there was no effect on DG offers. This implies that other-regarding preferences are at play in the amount of money sent but only in a reciprocal context. The third chapter presents an experiment on punishment. I hypothesized that AVP would increase rejections and stinginess in the UG and TG. Results show that AVP affects rejections and stinginess in small groups but not in large ones. Chapter Four contains the summary of future research suggestions.
Y40|Empoderamiento femenino y desarrollo rural: evaluación de un programa de desarrollo regional sustentable en Cuatrociénegas, Coahuila|El empoderamiento es fundamental en la consecución del desarrollo humano sustentable y por tanto, su medición y análisis son imperantes en la evaluación de los programas de política pública enfocados al fomento de este tipo de desarrollo. La presente investigación analiza el empoderamiento de las mujeres en el proyecto PRODERS del taller de artesanías La Vega en Cuatrociénegas, Coahuila, mediante el modelo multidimensional de Jo Rowlands. Los resultados revelan que las artesanas de este proyecto sólo muestran cambios en el empoderamiento de la dimensión personal y, en menor medida, en la de las relaciones cercanas. Sin embargo, los conflictos internos entre los miembros del taller hacen que el empoderamiento colectivo de la organización sea inexistente y que por tanto la sustentabilidad de la misma se vea amenazada.
Y40|Влияние На Човешкия Капитал Върху Икономическия Растеж (България, 1949-2005 Г.)<BR>[The Impact of Human Capital on the Economic Growth (Bulgaria, 1949-2005)]|In Bulgaria, during the transition to market-oriented economy, many analyzes are based on the widely held view that one of the positive legacies of the economies in transition (particularly that of Bulgaria) is the high level of human capital. The high degree of development of education and science is considered one of the few highly valued achievements of the socialist economy. Discussions focused on policies to stimulate economic growth indicate that the proper education of the workforce is an essential prerequisite to achieve positive macroeconomic results. Despite these opinions, however, the economic literature still lacks comprehensive empirical studies based on quantitative analysis on the relationship between human capital and economic growth in Bulgaria for the years of socialism and the transition. The purpose of the thesis is to analyze the impact of human capital on economic growth in Bulgaria during the years of socialism and the transition using the concepts of the modern theory of economic growth. The successful study is based on the following research tasks: 1. Study, systematization and classification of theoretical and empirical models of growth, dealing with the impact of human capital on macroeconomic growth; 2. Study of different approaches to measuring human capital in growth theory and analysis of their possible application to the measurement of human capital in Bulgaria; 3. Investigation of sources of information and the processes of formation of human capital in the years of socialism; 4. Construction of statistical series for human capital in Bulgaria for the period 1948-2005, based on quantitative educational statistics of population and employment; 5. Analysis of the dynamics of human capital in the period of socialism and the transition; 6. Identification, investigation and analysis of certain key administrative and economic factors affecting the formation of human capital in Bulgaria; 7. Investigation of the influence the efficiency of investment in human capital on growth through the modification of patterns of R. Lucas and G. Mankiw, D. Romer and D. Wilde; 8. Study the impact of human capital on economic growth for the period 1949-1989, the analysis based on causation and assessment of long and short term relationships; 9. Study the impact of human capital on economic growth from 1990-2005, based on neoclassical and endogenous growth model.
Y40|Supply Chains Facing Atypical Demand: Optimal Operational Policies And Benefits Under Information Sharing|Demand patterns for products with seasonality and or short life-cycles do not follow a clear discernible pattern (to allow predictive time-series modeling of demand) for individual sales events or seasons due to such factors as considerable demand volatility, product promotions, and unforeseen marketplace events. Suppliers supporting such atypical demand patterns typically incur higher holding costs, lower capacity utilization, and lower order fill-rates, particularly under long lead-times and uncertainty in effective capacity. Retailers on the other hand struggle with product overages and supply shortages. On the other hand, atypical demand settings bring huge financial opportunity to supply chain players, and are pervasive. It is suggested in the literature that an effective means to reap these benefits is through increased information sharing between retailers and suppliers, superior forecasting with forecast update techniques, proper replenishment, and custom designed inventory/manufacturing policies. We also believe that sharing of order forecasts, also known as soft-orders, in advance by the buyer could be beneficial to both parties involved. This dissertation in particular studies a two-player supply chain, facing atypical demand. Among the two-players is a buyer (retailer/distributor/vendor) that makes ordering decision(s) in the presence of upstream supply uncertainty and demand forecast revision(s). We propose a stochastic dynamic programming model to optimally deicide on soft-order(s) and a final firm-order under a deposit scheme for initial soft-order(s). While sharing of upstream soft-order inventory position information by the supplier before receiving a final order is not a common industrial practice, nor is it discussed in the literature, our analysis shows that such information sharing is beneficial under certain conditions. Second player of the supply chain is a supplier (manufacturer) that makes production release decision(s) in the presence of limited and random effective capacity, and final order uncertainty. Our stochastic dynamic programming model for optimal production release decision making reveals that substantial savings in order fulfillment cost (that includes holding, overage, and underage costs) can be realized in the presence of advance soft-order(s). Soft-orders can also be shown to improve order fill-rate for the buyer. This research explores complex interactions of factors that affect the operational decision making process, such as costs, demand uncertainty, supply uncertainty, effective capacity severity, information accuracy, information volatility, intentional manipulation of information etc. Through extensive analysis of the operational policies, we provide managerial insights, many of which are intuitively appealing, such as, additional information never increases cost of an optimal decision; many are also counterintuitive, for example, dynamic programming models cannot fully compensate for intentional soft-order inflation by the buyer, even under conditions of a stable and linear order inflation pattern, in the absence of deposits.
Y40|Firma Başarısızlığının Dinamiklerinin Belirlenmesinde Makina Öğrenmesi Teknikleri: Ampirik Uygulamalar ve Karşılaştırmalı Analiz<BR>[Machine Learning Techniques in Determining the Dynamics of Corporate Financial Distress: An Empirical Treatment and a Comparative Analysis of Financial and Non-Financial Micro Data of the Turkish Private Sector]|Recent financial crises and especially large corporate bankruptcies, have led bank managements and financial authorities to follow and monitor both financial and real sector risks, and to focus on firm failures. Bank of International Settlements, has therefore, taken the decision to include the necessity for banks to employ internal rating systems among BASEL II criteria. Thus, risk assessment and internal rating systems criteria would be made operational by the individual European Union banking systems, by the end of 2007, and January 2008 in Turkey, at the latest. Financial and operational information of the firms, makes up the input to the risk analysis. This information can be aggregated to portray the sectoral trends, and/or focused upon on a firm basis to understand firms’ financial behaviours. Finance theory summarizes firms’ risks under financial distress and firm failure. There have been a myriad of works under these two headings, particularly in the United States, after the Great Depression. While early studies have focused upon the differences in the financial ratios of financially sound and failed firms, especially with the advances in computing capacity, the last two decades have witnessed an increasing use of machine learning methods in the failure prediction. Therefore, machine learning methods can be considered as having great potential in failure prediction and being good candidates as decision aids for policy-making. This study considers financial distress and firm failure on theoretical grounds, gives a compact but elaborate explanation of machine learning schemes, and analyzes the results of these schemes run with data obtained from the database of Real Sector Data Division of the Central Bank. Cost sensitive learning was given special attention in the analysis.
Y40|Magison-ison: A parallel reality construction of war among Joloano Muslim Survivors in Sulu, Philippines|The Mindanao conflict in Southern Philippines is a long-standing controversy that has eluded comprehensive solutions. Despite efforts of the Government of the Philippines (GRP) and the representatives from the peoples of Mindanao in undertaking peace initiatives, “the war:” continues. The establishment of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) as embodied in an organic law provided in the 1986 Philippine Constitution has not seemed to bring about the much-anticipated progress. Even with the so-called “autonomy” already in place to substantiate the clamor of the Muslims for self-rule in the Tripoli Agreement, conflict has escalated signifying unrest among the people. Instead of dealing with the problem from the standpoint of an “outsider” who may know about the Mindanao conflict from what they hear, the study attempted to get a glimpse of “the war” from the “insiders” who have survived and lived to tell their own stories. From the perspectives of two distinct peoples of Sulu- the Christian and Muslim Joloanos, the study was able to penetrate the heart of conflict in Mindanao. The study was able to visualize “the 1974 war” and the on-going conflicts from two cultural lenses and in the process was able to demonstrate a “parallel reality construction” among the war survivors who provided interesting insights of “the war” from their “fantasy themes”. The research has not only surfaced conflicting notions in their revelations of “the war” as experienced (subjective realities) but has generated elements of “convergence” as their experiences were correlated with the institutionalized beliefs of war (objective realities) or the war as told. Despite distinct subjective realities, they have shown proclivity towards parallel perceptions. The Joloano war survivors’ subjective realities as applied in the study include their psycho-social trauma of the war and their portrayal of the role of “the other” culture as co-survivors of war. Among the elderly, descriptions of their fears and negative emotions have strongly echoed “old prejudices”. Among the middle-aged, “prudence” and tact in their narratives revealed a tendency to rationalize and to show sympathy towards “the other” culture. From the young war survivors a propensity towards confronting their dilemma suggested optimism and resilience in their perceptions. Transitions in the subjective realities of the war survivors are apparent across culture and age. Opposing views are very strong among the elderly except for one Christian and a Muslim who are associated with “the other” culture by reason of marriage with them. The older Christian Joloanos for instance believe that the war was “unnecessary” while the older Muslims were convinced it was “inevitable”. The study has strongly shown that “shifts” in perceptions could be anchored on the participants’ religious beliefs and changing circumstances that come with age, political set-up, economic climate and inter-marriage among others. Their reactions towards the prevailing issues of war (media war issues, other concepts and beliefs of war) which constitute the institutionalized-objective realities as defined in the study are “convergent” despite distinct experiences and personal circumstances. They have for example generally shown disagreement towards the commonly held concept that the mass media function to crystallize relevant issues, like the war in Mindanao. The majority of the co-authors furthermore negated the belief of the general public that “Christians and Muslims can never co-exist peacefully, and that the 1974 war was a form of “jihad” or a religious war among Muslims. In the study therefore, communication has been proven once again to play a vital role in clarifying issues of the Mindanao conflict. It performed an emancipatory role in ways that provided rhetorical and psychological relief by allowing an occasion for war survivors to deconstruct their realities through their narratives. And to reconstruct their meaning of war by actively taking part in correcting prevailing notions of war to bring about the much needed change in a war-torn community like Sulu.
Y40|Rethinking the Culture - Economy Dialectic|"The culture - economy dialectic (CED), the opposition of the concepts and phenomena of culture and economy, is one of the most important notions in the modern history of ideas. Both the disciplinary boundaries and much theoretical thought in social science are strongly influenced or even determined by the CED. Hence, a thorough analysis and evaluation of the CED might be useful to better understand the history of ideas in social science and the currently fashionable research on the cultural influences on economic differences between countries and regions. This book, my PhD thesis, attempts to do just that. The concepts of ""culture"" and ""economy"" (and related concepts) and the (assumed) relationships therebetween are compared and analysed. Empirical results from earlier studies are summarised and some new test are presented. These new tests are partly based on a measurement of Dutch regional culture. However, it appeared that most theories of the CED are (nearly) impossible to (empirically) verify. There seems to be some influence of wealth on specific cultural phenomena (such individualism and post-materialism), but the often assumed influence of culture on entrepreneurship and economic growth remains unconfirmed. Moreover, from an analysis of the theories themselves, it appears that most of these cannot be falsified and are, therefore, hardly 'scientific'. Many of the theories of the CED and, in fact, many theories of social science in general are of a conceptual rather than a causal nature. These theories cannot easily be falsified by empirical means alone, but must be studied by means of conceptual analysis. In the final conclusions, this book, therefore, argues for conceptual analysis in, and a more anarchist approach to, social science."
Y40|Developing Strategies for Islamic Banks to Face the Future Challenges of Financial Globalization|Developing Strategies for Islamic Banks to Face the Future Challenges of Financial Globalization Ahmed Al-Ajlouni Abstract This study aims at forming strategic response to assess the ability of Islamic banks in benefiting from the opportunities that may be provided by financial globalization and limits its threats, through assessing the capability of Islamic banks to meet the requirements and challenges of financial globalization, then suggests the suitable strategies that may be adopted by Islamic banks to maximize and limit the expected opportunities and threats respectively
Y40|Giga-Investments: Modelling the Valuation of Very Large Industrial Real Investments|In this doctoral dissertation characteristics of very large industrial real investments (VLIRI) are investigated and a special group of VLIRI is defined as giga-investments. The investment decision-making regarding to giga-investments is discussed from the points of view of discounted cash-flow based methods and real option valuation. Based on the bacground of establishing giga-investments, state-of-the-art in capital budgeting (including real options) and by applying fuzzy numbers a novel method for the evaluation and profitability analysis of giga-investments is presented. Application of the method is illustrated and issues regarding investment decision-making of large industrial real investments are discussed.
Y40|Hemispheric dominance and language proficiency levels in the four macro skills of Western Mindanao State university college students|This study was conducted to determine the relationship between the hemispheric dominance (HD) and the English proficiency (EP) scores in the four macro skills of the Western Mindanao State University college students. It hypothesized that students’ HD would have a significant correlation a) with their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading and writing, b) with their global EP score, c) with both the macro and global scores when respondents would be grouped according to age, gender and area of specialization. In this study, there were 240 respondents selected through purposive, stratified, and random sampling techniques from the 5,096 students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education. Using the standardized HD Test, the standardized Listening and Reading Comprehension Tests, the researcher-made Speaking and Writing Skill Tests and Cloze Test and employing mainly the Pearson r for the statistical analysis, the study concluded: 1) that most of the students of the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Engineering and Education of Western Mindanao State University were left-brained (74.6%); 2) that the students were “good” in speaking, “fair” in listening and writing skills but “ poor” in reading and in global English; 3) that there was no significant relationship between the students’ hemisphericity and their EP scores in listening, speaking, reading, writing and global proficiency tests; and 4) that a significant relationship was shown between HD and EP scores when respondents were grouped according to age and area of specialization only.
Y40|Методология Анализа Системных Противоречий Общественного Развития<BR>[Methodology of the analysis of System contradictions of Social development]|The thesis is devoted to studying the role of systemic contradictions in social development, the consideration of objective reasons and the conditions of their occurrence, the relationship of systemic contradictions with the processes of formation of social interests, as well as the construction of new theoretical and methodological principles of forecasting, analysis and resolution.
Y40|Production Efficiency in Peasant Agriculture: An Application of LISREL Model|The study examined a simplified conceptual model which incorporates variables that influence the processes and consequences of household decision-making in the Ada and Selale districts of the Ethiopian highlands. Linear structural relations (LISREL) analysis was performed on three conceptual models. The results of LISREL analysis indicate that the magnitude of contribution of factors to production efficiency in descending order as: skill variables (e.g., experience, secular education and production knowledge), consequences of access to resources or institutions (e.g., wealth), technologies adopted, physical factors (e.g., land and labour) and extension education. The impact of inputs on production efficiency was greater among farmers who have adopted one or two technologies (Ada) and two or more technologies (Selale). Successful adoption can be attained if, given appropriate socioeconomic environment, skills of producers are matched to the requirements of technologies, and when the choice of technologies are compatible with the goals of households, experience, region and enterprise specific comparative advantages.
Y40|Technical Efficiency And The Technology Gap In Wetland Rice Farming In Indonesia: A Metafrontier Analysis| Diversity in the characteristics between regions is why different kinds of technology are used in wetland rice farming in Indonesia. These differences lead to a technology gap which then makes it nearly impossible to compare the maximum production sizes (the frontiers) of each region. This study is aimed to observe the factors that affect production, efficiency, and the technology gap in wetland rice farming using the data from 4,203 wetland rice farmers in 4 regions in Indonesia which were obtained from the Cost Structure of Food Crops Production Survey 2011 conducted by the BPS-Statistics Indonesia. This study was conducted using a metafrontier analysis to prove that the efficiency level in the 4 regions could not be compared to each other. In general, all the coefficients of the production function variables were positive and significant, as expected. The size of the harvested area was the strongest factor in influencing wetland rice production. The ten socio-economic variables in this study had various effects on the inefficiency of rice farming in each region. This study also demonstrated that the use of technical efficiency measurements taken based on their respective region’s frontier would lead to biased and misguided policies; therefore, special notes are required in the analysis.
