Y80|La era de Trump y sus impactos en la frontera norte de México|A partir del triunfo como presidente de Estados Unidos de Donald Trump, al que le anteceden discursos reaccionarios y polémicos en temas sensibles entre México y Estados Unido, se hace obligado el planteamiento de posibles de escenarios en materia política, social, económica y ambiental para la frontera norte de México. Un grupo de investigadores de El Colegio de la Frontera Norte (México) se reunió para reflexionar sobre estos temas y elaborar algunas recomendaciones para los tomadores de decisiones, en particular para los gobiernos de los seis estados de la frontera norte de México. En este cuaderno de trabajo se presentan algunas de sus reflexiones.
Y80|The Nature of Excessive Behavior (ISRAF) in the Islamic Economic Framework|Objective – The objective of this paper is to unfold the nature of excessive behavior in the Islamic economics framework. Methodology/Technique – This is a library research based on the various studies that specifically discuss excessive behavior and Islamic consumer behavior. The study uses a rating system to identify the relevance of content to the study and analyze content analysis. Findings – The nature of excessive behavior is condemned by Islam and is fully agreed upon by Muslim scholars. The extent of excessive behavior is not limited to certain levels of consumption. The Muslim consumer may unaware of doing the practice under the influence of a particular setting, where the pleasure of the practice is felt temporarily. Novelty – This study clarifies the terminology and nature of excessive behavior, which is unclear in previous studies conducted by Muslim scholars. Type of Paper: Review
Y80|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
Y80|Democracy and inequality: The case of Mexico|Democracy and inequality: The case of MexicoIt might seem contradictory to talk about democracy and inequality. We cannot forget that one of the principles defining a democratic regime is equality. Nevertheless, history shows that in many democratic States, at least in their definition, inequality remains a challenge and at the same time and in consequence, to keep democracy or consolidate it are challenges too. This paper would try to respond to this research question: how inequalities impact the quality of democracy in the Mexican case?.We choose that country because it has been considered, theoretically speaking, a democratic regime since 1917, and a young democratic regime in its practice since 2000, but the quality of its practice remains poor without being able to talk about its consolidation in terms of Schmitter. Another characteristic of that country is its economic, social, and political gaps among citizens. How can democracy remain in a country where people are living with food, housing, and educational shortcomings? Has democracy allowed those inequalities? What has been the price that democracy has paid for keeping those inequalities? Are those inequalities that allow the political regime to be in place? These are some of the questions to be answered. Our work hypothesis is that the social and economic inequalities have damaged the quality of democracy. They delay its consolidation, with consequences reflected in poor citizenship participation in State?s affairs, since it presents difficulties to improve active citizenship, because of the conditions of some people, making them unable to be considered as agents in their State and the decisions-making process. We would also consider how identity, inclusion and recognition are taking place in Mexico and how could those elements take place to improve democracy, increase social cohesion and reduce insecurity, illegal practices and violations to human rights.
Y80|The Relationship Between The Star System And The Popular Culture And Turkey?S ?Superstar? Ajda Pekkan|Mass communication and mass media that bring new dimensions to communication among people affect the individual?s accordingly the masses level of knowledge, manner and attitude. According to Mills, mass media is the mirror of modern life of society. Mass media guides the society?s potential of motivation by selling image and data; with the data they disseminate mass media can give information about other societies and cultures? standard of living, relations of individuals and consumption areas of them (Quotation by Aziz, 1982, s. 48-50).While making sense of external reality, human beings starts out from his existing life and as the means of justification he uses his own popular culture icons (like actors, pop singers and etc.). But still he can?t change the external reality and it makes the icons meaningful unconsciously. This show the differences between mass culture and popular culture (Aydogan,2004, s.37).Popular culture is a consumption culture. While creating something popular, the existing popularity is used. Popular sport, sportsman, singers, ideas, manners, magazine heroes?something popular is covered and packed and consumers take part in the process making something popular by taking it (Erdogan, 1999, s.3). A material is sold directly. There is an indirect marketing through media.Stars can be called popular as they present sustainability, permanency. Stars are related with cultural industry with their trends, looks and novelty.Scanning model is a research method which aims to describe the situation existing in the past and today as it is (Karasar, 1995, s.77). This research is sample of scanning model. The research contains popular culture, connection of the stars, function of stars at creating and dissembling the popular culture and analyzing Ajda Pekkan who is the superstar of Turkey.During the research, related publishing ?n Turkish and English about image, icon, consumption, popular culture, development of star system are scanned. Super star Ajda Pekkan?s life is analyzed to discover the relation between popular culture and star system. Ajda Pekkan joined a contest to become the cover girl of ?Ses Magazine? in 1963 and chosen the first, then she started her professional career. So for this research all the news about her are scanned at this magazine to see the duration of her becoming a star.?Popular culture? and ?star? terms give essential clues about the cultural, economic, social features of society so the results of this research may be illuminating for this field.
Y80|Simulation of Spar Type Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Subjected to Misaligned Wind-Wave Loading Using Conservation of Momentum Method|Floating wind turbines are subjected to stochastic wind and wave loadings. Wind and wave loadings are not essentially aligned. The misalignment between wind and wave loadings affects the dynamical response of the floating wind turbines which needs to be studied. For this purpose, the nonlinear equations of motion of the spar-type floating wind turbine is derived using the Newton’s second law and conservation of angular momentum theory. The aerodynamic, hydrodynamic, mooring and buoyancy forces are determined and coupled with the system. The dynamic responses of the system are calculated and compared for different wind-wave misalignment angles. The simulation results demonstrate the importance of consideration of wind-wave misalignment angle on the dynamic response for the floating offshore wind turbine.
Y80|Film as a Mass Medium: Audience Perception of Home Video Films as Representation of Realities in Nigeria (Study of Residents in Awka South)|The proliferation of home videos amongst other variables has been viewed as a major threat to creating narratives that truly represent the society. This study examines, using Nigeria as a context, the representation of reality in home video films. Gathering respondents from Awka South, a local government area in the south eastern part of Nigeria, the study employed the survey research design with a sample size of 400. The result of the analysis showed that home video film audiences perceived representation of realities in the society in home video films. The study draws from the reflective-projective theory of communication as the theoretical underpinning that provided insight on how the media mirrors the society.
Y80|Is Scopus polluting its own database by indexing junk articles? A case study of five journals|The aim of this short research note is to demonstrate that Scopus is polluting its own databases, unintentionally or otherwise, by indexing junk articles. I have used five journals indexed by Scopus in this research note as examples in a case study format. I have found that the publication rate of junk articles for these five journals increased after they began to be indexed in Scopus. These journals are publishing conference papers and graduate students’ initial research reports in which there are many errors. This makes the indexing of The Journal of Social Sciences Research (Online ISSN: 2411-9458/Print ISSN: 2413-6670) questionable as it was considered for evaluation before its current two year publication history, (source: https://suggestor.step.scopus.com/progressTracker/?trackingID=49844DA5933F47A8). The quality of its published articles is very poor, and it has advertised and promoted false figures for its impact factors. These journals publish articles that are out of their scope and publish every article on condition of payment of a fee by the author that averages out to about 400 USD per article. Given that these journals have been advertising and promoting fake impact factors prior to their being indexed in Scopus and given that Scopus has included them in its central index, they are deceiving young researchers and the broader academic community with false information. Beall (2016) has previously pointed out the issue of the falsified impact factor information in his list of predatory journals. Many universities subscribe to Scopus to, among other reasons, measure the impact of their faculty members' research.. There is therefore a need to address the ethics of this situation, and this study recommends that Scopus carefully index new journals but observe the publication rates of junk articles, and if an indexed journal makes such an error, to take a decision within three months and impose a lifetime ban on indexing the journal.
Y80|A New Taxonomy for International Relations: Rethinking the International System as a Complex Adaptive System|Abstract: The international system is a complex adaptive system with emergent properties and dynamics of self-organization and information processing. As such, it is better understood with a multidisciplinary approach that borrows methodologies from the field of complexity science and integrates them to the theoretical perspectives offered by the field of international relations (IR). This study is set to formalize a complex systems theory approach to the study of international affairs and introduce a new taxonomy for IR with the two-pronged aim of improving interoperability between different epistemological communities and outlining a formal grammar that set the basis for modeling international politics as a complex adaptive system.
Y80|Psychological Outcomes of Unemployment in Young People in Georgia|Unemployment has a negative impact on people?s everyday lives. This study examined psychological outcomes of long-term unemployment on young people in Georgia who have already completed their initial education (vocational or higher). In this research 108 young people aged 18-29 were interviewed. The unemployed participants reported a high level of learned helplessness, which was related to the different types of stress coping strategies. This study also identified the high level of well-being associated with emotional oriented stress coping, high level of learned helplessness and the passive attempt to get a job, which also was predicted. The study results suggested that young people who already have got bachelor?s degree still consider themselves as not educated enough for employment. They use self-distraction coping strategy and prefer to attend seminars, training courses to increase their level of education instead of attempting to get a job. The results also showed that relationship between active coping and life satisfaction was positive as well as a denial and low level of well-being scale. Overall, people who have never been employed have better results of life-satisfaction scale than those people who lost their jobs.
Y80|Between a Combinative Perspective and Self-Contained Practice: A Critical Review of Ethnomethodology|Ethnomethodology (EM) brought a new vision to social studies by putting the construction of social reality through everyday life and practices of the members of society at the center and questioning what is taken granted conventionally in social research. However, it is doubtful if EM possesses a systematic and comprehensive approach to explain the social world extensively as a fully-fledged practice or framework of analysis. Moreover, it shows a very fragmented structure regarding the studies in the field. Based on these aspects, this article problematizes the extent of EM?s contribution to social analysis. The argument of this work is that it is not suitable to be considered a separate framework of social analysis due to the drawbacks mentioned; nevertheless it has a significant potential to contribute to the examination of social reality if it is integrated into the theoretical and/or methodological frameworks of social analyses as a perspective. The argument is defended through critical reading of the primary and secondary sources which deals with EM theoretically and also discussing some studies which can be regarded as its applications in social research.
Y80|Guidelines for the Enhancement of Material Disbursement System for the Graduate School of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|The primary objective of this study were to study problems of the disbursement management of the staff members of the Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand and propose to guideline to develop an efficient material disbursement system. A quantitative research methodology was employed in this study. The research sample consisted of 18 staff members who worked in the Disbursement Section. The study was undertaken between September 2017- July 2018. A questionnaire was used as a data collection tool. The data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, and standard deviation. The research findings showed that in terms of the problem, having too many steps in the procurement procedure was found to be the most found problem. This is because related staff members had to face with difficulties and undergo with many steps which were complex and involved many stakeholders. The proposed guideline for enhancing the efficiency of the material disbursement system was that some unnecessary steps in the procurement procedure must be cut short especially those involving the documents, the Disbursement Section should have a clear plan for the procurement and only necessary material should be procured. These actions could help the operation in this section faster. Moreover, new staff member in this section should gain a proper training.
Y80|Influence of Corporate Culture on the Employees? Work Performance of Eldercare Service Business|The purposes of this research were to: 1) investigate the attitude level of employee towards the corporate culture on eldercare service business; and 2) examine the influence of the corporate culture on work performance of the employees of eldercare service business. This study utilized a quantitative research approach. The research sample consisted of 400 employees of eldercare service business in Bangkok and metropolitan. The sample was obtained by systematic sampling. The study was carried out between April and June, 2018. The research instrument was a questionnaire. Data were analyzed by descriptive statistics including mean, and standard deviation and a structural equation model. The result of this research showed that: 1) the overall attitudes of employee towards the corporate culture on eldercare service business were rated at a high level, and when considering each dimension of their attitudes including the attitudes on long term orientation was found to have the highest mean score, followed by protection of their own right, participation as a group member, and performance orientation, each of which was rated at a high level. In terms of employees? overall work performance, it was also rated at a high level, and when considering each dimension, organizational loyalty had the highest mean score, followed by willingness for cooperation and efficiency in work performance respectively.; and 2) the corporate culture had a direct influence on the employees? work performance with a .05 level of statistical significance. This research can be used as a guideline for the elderly care service business to determine the appropriate organizational culture for long-term loyalty to the employees.
Y80|A Study of Guidelines for the Development of Public Relations Media Used by the Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|The objectives of this research were to: 1) study guidelines for developing public relations media to promote the Graduate School of Suan Suanandha Rajabhat University, Thailand; and 2) examine the postgraduates? opinion towards these public relations media. A quantitative research methodology was employed in this study. The respondents in the study were 200 lecturers, students, and staff of the Graduate School. A questionnaire was used as a data collection tool. Data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, and standard deviation. The research findings revealed that the guidelines for developing the public relations media were that: 1) appropriate media used to distribute news and related information included a website, and big billboards; 2) design and presentation of the media had to be interesting ( = 3.68); 3) content of the media was correct and up-to-date ( = 3.72); there were sufficient media for the distribution of news and related information ( = 3.64); fonts and pictures used in the media were attractive ( = 3.64); the media allowed audients to gain access to the information easily ( = 3.45); the content of the media was easy to understand ( = 3.42). Moreover, the respondents had very positive opinion towards public relations media used by the Graduate School. Their opinion was rated at a high level ( = 4.40) . The factors influencing the opinion, sorted in a descending order, include pictures used in the media being clear ( = 4.83), the position of pictures being attractive, their color being consistent with the content, and text used being easy to read ( = 4.75), and the design of each page of media being related to each other ( = 4.58).
Y80|The Use of Line Application as a communication media by the Staff Members of the Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|This research primarily aims to study the use of Line application to communication among the staff members of the Graduate School of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University and to examine their satisfaction upon the use of such application. This research was a quantitative research study. The research was carried out between September 2017 and July 2018. The research sample was 40 staff members of the Graduate School. Data were gathered by the use of a questionnaire and analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, and standard deviation. The research findings showed that in terms of the main topics of communication, the topics related to the organization was discussed the most via Line application. According to the sample, their opinion upon use of Line application to discuss the information related to the organization was rated at a high level. Special topics of discussion included the development of study program, information on students? registration, research and academic service activities. These discussions were to ensure that the team members would understand the details of these aspects correctly (X? = 3.81). In terms of general information, it was found that the sample rated the use of Line application to discuss general information at the highest level. The topics of discussion included searching for various kinds of knowledge such as food, tourism, and health (X? = 3.91). Moreover, the overall satisfaction upon the use of Line application (i.e. its response, the purpose of using, convenience, speed, accuracy, and communication) was at high level (X? = 3.86). Lastly, the study revealed that staff members with different gender, age, marital status, education level, work position, the faculty they work for differed in their satisfaction on the use of social media with a .01 and .05 level of statistical significance.
Y80|Factors Influencing the Retention of the Staff Members of the Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|This study aims to study the retention of the staff members of the Graduate School of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University by examining the relationship between the staff members? satisfaction with the work and the retention of these staff members. This research was a quantitative research. The sample consisted of 40 staff members of the Graduate School. The study was carried out between September 2017 and July 2018. Data were collected via a mean of a questionnaire and analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, standard deviation, Pearson?s Correlation Coefficient, and multivariate statistics. According to the sample? profile, it was found that most of them were female (86.11 %), aged between 26-30 years old (48.14%), had worked for 3-4 years (4.52%). The research findings showed that overall, the staff members were satisfied with their work at the Graduate School. Their satisfaction was rated at a moderate level ( =3.55). When considering at each aspect of their satisfaction with their work, it was found that these staff were happy with their relationship in the organization and freedom at work. Moreover, this study concludes that the staff members? overall satisfaction with work had a relationship with their retention which was consistent with the research hypothesis. However, when examining at each aspect of their satisfaction, it was found that satisfaction on works, freedom at work, job characteristics, organization policies, and relationship within the organization had a positive relationship with their retention. Additionally, the staff?s satisfaction on compensation and benefits had no relationship with their retention and commitment to the organization (x¯=3.89). The study also concluded that the staff?s commitment to the organization could predict their retention by 24.3 percent.
Y80|Organization Management of the Sub-district Administrative Organization in Huay Yod District, Trang Province, Thailand Based on Good Governance|The main objectives of this research were to: 1) study the opinion level of the officers on the organization management of the sub-district administrative organization in Huay Yod District, Trang Province based on good governance; and 2) to compare the opinion of these officers. A quantitative research methodology was utilized in this study. The research sample was 250 officers of the sub-district administrative organization in Huay Yod District, Trang Province. Data were collected via the use of a questionnaire. The collected data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, mean, and standard deviation. T-test was also used to analyze two groups of independent variables and One-Way ANOVA was also used to analyze the data. The research findings showed that: 1) in terms of the opinion level of the officers, it was found that the overall opinion and the opinion toward each aspect of good governance including the rule of law, responsibility, participation, morality, accountability and cost effectiveness were rated at a high level; and 2) respondents with different age, education level, income had different opinion on the management based on good governance, with a .01 and .05 level of statistical significance, whereas those with different gender and work position had no difference in their opinion in this issue.
Y80|Factors Affecting the Duration Time of Study and Success in Graduation of the Postgraduate Students: A Case of the Postgraduate students in the Linguistics Program, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University|The primary objective of this study was to examine the factors affecting the duration time of study of the postgraduate students in the Linguistics program of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University. The population of this research were the second to the forth batches of students in the program. The respondents were 18 students. A quantitative research approach was employed in this study. The data collection was conducted between February and September 2017. A questionnaire was used as a data collection tool. The collected data were then analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, standard deviation, t-test, and F-test with a .05 level of statistical significance. The research findings revealed that factors influencing the duration time of study and success in graduation of the students were overall rated at the highest level. These factors, sorted in a descending order, included the thesis advisors (being rated at the highest level), the program content and teaching and learning activities (being rated at the highest level); and characteristics of the students (being rated at a high level). Moreover, the students? demographic data including students? gender, status, and average income per month were also found to affect their duration time of study and the success in graduation. Specifically, students aged between 20-40 years old were likely to be graduated with a shorter period of time, as compared to those aged between 41-60 years. Additionally, students who worked in universities in the Rajabhat system were likely to be graduated with a shorter period of time than those who worked in schools.
Y80|Working Environment and Motivations Effecting the Efficiency in Employees' Work Performance: A Case of a Textile and Clothing Industrial Factory in Thailand|The primary aim of this research was to study the influence of working environment and employees? motivation on the efficiency of their work performance. This research used a quantitative research approach. The research sample was 400 employees of a textile and clothing industrial factory in Thailand. The study was undertaken between June 1 and August 31, 2018. A questionnaire was used as a data collection tool. The collected data were then analyzed with descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, and multiple linear regression. In terms of the sample?s profile, most of them were female, between 20-30 years old, single, graduated below the undergraduate level, had working for more than 10 years, received around 15,001-20,000 bath per month. The research findings showed that these employees viewed that the overall working environment was significant for them. When considering at each aspect of the working environment, it was found that the each of the factors including the design of the working environment, structure of the office buildings, work structure, the efficient design of equipment and machines, safety and sanitation of working place, and process, was rated at a high level. As for the employees? motivation, it was found that the overall motivation, and each aspect of motivation including organizational policies and management, working condition, salary, job responsibilities, and progress in work were rated at a high level as well. The results of the hypothesis testing showed that working environment in the aspect of design of the working environment and safety and sanitation of the working place had an influence on the efficiency of the employees? work performance in terms of the quality of the outcome of work.
Y80|Factor Influencing a Decision in Studying in the Master of Business Administration Program of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University|This research aims to study a desire to study in the Master of Business Administration Program of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University as well factors influencing the students? decision. The findings from this research can be beneficial for the university and other related administrators and personnel in that they can serve as valuable information in planning and developing marketing and public relation strategies for the program more effectively. The findings can also be used as information to encourage and fulfill the desire of the potential students of the Master of Business Administration Program. This research employed a quantitative research methodology. The sample consisted of 100 respondents who lived in Bangkok Metropolitan. Data were collected with the use of a questionnaire and then analyzed with descriptive statistics. The study was carried out for the period of 10 months between October 2017 and July 2018. The research findings showed that overall, the independent variables influencing the potential students? decisions to choose the program were rated the highest level. These independent variables or the factors influencing the decision included, sorted in a descending order, image of the university, fee, promotional activities, curriculums and teaching and learning activities, and location of the university. It was also found that Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University was reputable for its high standard in education among students and people therefore there were many people interested to study there.
Y80|Public Expectation towards Social Development of Khok Prong Sub-District, Wichian Buri District, Phetchabun Province, Thailand|The research aims to: 1) study expectation of people towards social development of Khok Prong Sub-District, Wichian Buri District, Phetchabun Province, Thailand; and 2) to compare the expectation of people with different demographic profile. This study is a quantitative research. The research sample consisted of 400 respondents. A questionnaire was used to collect the data. The questionnaire consisted of 3 parts including the first part which aimed to gain the respondents? demographic information, the second part which focused on examining the expectation of people towards social development and the second part which aimed to examine, and the third part emphasized the opinion and suggestions of people towards social development of the study site. Collected data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation, t-test, and One-Way ANOVA with a .05 level of statistical significance. In terms of the sample?s profile, most of them were female, around 31-40 years old, graduated in a primary school level or lower, married, and worked as a farmer with average income per month of 5,000 Baht or lower. Moreover, the research findings showed that the respondents? overall expectation towards social development of the study site was rated at a high level. Additionally, the respondents with different gender, age, education level, and career were likely to be differ in their opinion towards social development of the study site with a .05 level of statistical significance whereas those with different marital status and income were found to have no difference in their opinion.
Y80|Students? Satisfaction on the Learning and Teaching Management of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|This research aims to study and compare students? satisfaction on the learning and teaching management of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand according to their demographic profile. The research population were students of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University. The sample was selected via stratified sampling. As a result, 412 students were selected. A questionnaire was used as a data collection method. Collected data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including number, percentage, standard deviation, t-test, and ANOVA with a .05 level of statistical significance. The research findings showed that the students? overall satisfaction on the learning and teaching management was at a high level. When considering at each dimension of the satisfaction, each of the aspects was also rated at a high level. Satisfaction on the teachers was the highest, compared to other dimension, followed by contents of the curriculum, learning and teaching, establishment, environment, and students respectively. Moreover, it was also found that students with different gender tended to have no difference in their satisfaction, both in terms of the overall satisfaction and each dimension of the satisfaction. However, students with different years of study and faculties tended to be different in their satisfaction with a .05 level of statistical significance.
Y80|Factors Affecting the Success in Doing a Thesis of the Postgraduate Students of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|The objectives of this research were to study the success level of doing a thesis of the postgraduate students of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University and to examine the factors affecting the success. This research utilized a quantitative research approach. The research sample was 256 graduates. Data were collected with the use of a questionnaire and analyzed with descriptive statistics including percentage, mean, standard deviation, and multiple linear regression. In terms of the sample?s profile, it was found that most of them were female (58%), around 31-40 years old (46%), graduated from the Performing Arts Program (64%), and worked as a government employee (46%). The research findings also revealed that all the studied independent variables or the factors affecting the success in doing a thesis of the students were overall rated at the highest level. When considering at each factor, it was found that factors including thesis advisors, students? self-management, students? academic knowledge were rated at the highest level whereas academic service offered by the university was rated at a high level. This study also revealed that the factors affecting the success in doing a thesis included the thesis advisors and students? self-management, with a .05 level of statistical significance.
Y80|?The Factors Affecting Decision on Selecting Pet Shop in Bangkok|The main aim of this study were to examine customer behavior in using service of a pet shop and to investigate the influence of marketing mix on such decision. This research employed a quantitative research methodology. The sample included 100 residents in Bangpath District, Bangkok. A questionnaire was used to collect the data. Data were analyzed with descriptive statistics. In terms of the respondents? profile, most of them were single, female, between 23 - 30 years old, graduated with undergraduate level. They were students, and gained an average income of 15,000-20,000 Baht. The research findings showed that most of the respondents had only one dog or cats and dogs appeared to be a favorite pet. The respondents had taken care them for around two years to be a friend when they felt lonely and to protect their house. The respondents? parents had an influence on their decision to select a pet shop. The most frequent used service from the pet shop was hair cutting. The most purchased products were snacks. They knew the pet shop from the shop?s staff members and their own friends. They normally used the service around twice a month and paid around 1,501-3,000 Baht. The main reason to select the shop was its location which was convenient to reach. They preferred to have a stay-over service for their pets the most. In terms of the influence of the marketing mix on their decision, the most influencing factor was personnel which was followed by process, price, place or distribution channel, physical attributes design and presentation, promotion, and product respectively.
Y80|Factors Influencing a Decision to Choose a University: A Case of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University|The main objective of this research was to study the potential students? decision to choose a university for their education. This study used Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Bangkok, Thailand as a case study as the university has been ranked as the best university in the Rajabhat system for many years. A quantitative research methodology approach was employed in this study. The research sample consisted of 400 high school students in Bangkok. Data were collected with the use of a questionnaire and analyzed with descriptive statistics. The research findings showed that the main reason that made the respondents choose to study at this university was its reputation as the best university in the Rajabhat system. This reason was rated the highest level. This was followed by the number of students in the undergraduate and postgraduate programs.
Y80|The Application of Power BI in Planning for New Students Application in the Post-graduate Programs of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand|The primary objective of this research was to develop the decision support system for the Academic Section that helps with new student admission in the post-graduate programs of the Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Thailand. This decision support system is expected to help in the analysis of the possibility of the program application and it also provides clear guideline for related staff members to work. Moreover, it can help with the development and modification of the marketing strategies so that the university can compete with other universities more efficiently. In conducting this research, students? information in each program from the registration section of the Graduate School as well as the Academic Service Department of the university between 2013-2017 was gathered. The decision system was developed by utilizing Microsoft SQL Server 2016 which was used to collect and stored the students? information. Apart from that SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio in the part of Integration Service was used to retrieve, modify and enter the data in the ETL process. Then, the data were examined for their relationship via Analysis Service. The result of this research was a data cube in which multiple dimensions of information can be retrieved and the Business Intelligence Program, known as ?Power BI? which could present report in a form of a dashboard via internet. With these innovations, the university administrators could view the overall data. This study also evaluated satisfaction towards the use of this program from ten users and found that they were satisfied with its capability in supporting the decision, its accuracy and its function. The overall satisfaction was rated at a high level with a mean score of 4.07 and standard deviation of 0.64.
Y80|Marketing Mix factors influencing the behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods of the customer in Pathumthani Province|This Research aims to studied Marketing mix factors influencing the behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods of the customer in Pathumthani Province that consist of individual factor, marketing mix factor and behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods of the customer in Pathumthani Province.The research result showed that almost of the sampling are female who has between 25-30 years old. Almost of them were graduated in bachelor degree, them career are government or state enterprise personal and has has income per month between 15001-20000 baht. Marketing mix factor which are price, product and promotion found that in the highest level. In the other hand, Place strategy, personal, physical and process factors showed that all in high level. Hypothesis testing result found that 1. Sex, Age, Education, Career and Salary per month are related with behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods and also to rely on hypothesis with statistic significant at .05. 2. In the holistic of Marketing mix factors are related with behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods and also to rely on hypothesis with statistic significant at 0.05. 3. Marketing mix factors are related with behavior to buying healthy supplementary foods and also to rely on hypothesis with statistic with statistic significant at 0.05.
Y80|Customers Satisfaction of Thai Herbal Body Oil|This research aims 1) to study satisfaction of the customers who use Thai herbal body oil 2) the influence of the demographic factors on the customers' satisfaction. The study was carried out between January and March 2018. This study employed a quantitative research approach. The research sample consisted of 92 customers. A questionnaire was used to collect the data. The data were analyzed by descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, mean and standard deviation, and inferential statistics. The Research result showed that: 1) the customers were satisfied with the product, the overall satisfaction was rated at a high level; and 2) demographic factors including age, gender, and salary, were found to have an influence on their satisfaction of the product.
Y80|The study of customer satisfaction with Herbal Hair Serum in Using the Service at Applied Thai Traditional Medicine Clinic in Bangkok, Thailand|This Research aims to study the satisfaction with Herbal Hair Serum on the customer?s decision to use the Service at Applied Thai Traditional Medicine Clinic in Bangkok, Thailand and how the customers? demographic background affected their satisfaction. A quantitative research methodology. The period of study was between February and March 2018. The research sample consisted 80 customers on using the service at Applied Thai Traditional Medicine Clinic, obtained by simple random sampling. A questionnaire was used as a tool to collect the data. The data were then analyzed by descriptive and inferential statistics. The research results showed that demographic factors including: age, gender, and salary were found to have an influence on their product satisfaction. And the customers were satisfied with overall a most level.
Y80|Quality of Service of Hotel and Lodging Businesses in Samutsongkram Province, Thailand|The objectives of this study were to examine the level of the quality of Service of the hotel and lodging businesses in Samutsongkram province, Thailand to develop the guidelines for the development of their quality of service. The period of study was between October and November 2017. This study suggests that the entrepreneurs of the hotel and lodging businesses should focus on providing continuously development programs for their staff members. They should also utilize modern technologies in enhancing their service in all aspects to maximize the customer satisfaction.
Y80|Thai Massage Service Behavior in Ratchaburi, Thailand|This research aims to study: 1) the demographic factors influencing the customers? decision and behavior to use the service of Thai massage in Ratchaburi, Thailand; and 2) the influence of service marketing mix factors on the customers? decision. The study was carried out between May and August 2017. This study employed a quantitative research methodology. The research sample consisted of 400 individuals who had experiences in using Thai massage services in Ratchaburi. A questionnaire was used to collect the data. The data were analyzed by descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, mean and standard deviation, and inferential statistics. The Research result showed that 1) customers? decision and their behavior to use the service of Thai massage was influenced by age, occupation, average income per month, and education level; 2) service marketing mix that had an effect on the customer decision and behavior to use the service of Thai massage included, sorted in a descending order, product, process, price, place, personnel, promotion, and physical attributes.
Y80|Sustainable Service Quality to Meet with Customer Expectation|One of the strengths of Thai tourism is the high standard of service quality of Thai hotels. Therefore, it is vital for Thai hotel industry to maintain and ameliorate the service quality in a sustainable way. The question is whether the high standard of service quality meets with customers? expectation or not. The purposes of this research were to examine the level of satisfaction in ten areas of services from the perspectives of international tourists whether their expectations of the service quality have been met or not. The population of study included all international tourists who visited Thailand the first quarter of year 2018. A total of 400 samples was interviewed with English questionnaire. The findings revealed that in general the respondents had a very high expectation of service quality and the majority of their expectations in ten areas of services had been fulfilled. There were two areas of service quality that needed to be improve which were transportation services and ability to communicate in other languages such as Russia, Arabic, and Chinese.
Y80|Graduate Qualifications of Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University for National Qualifications Framework for Higher Education in Thailand|Graduate Qualifications of Graduate School, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University for National Qualifications Framework for Higher Education (TQF: HEd.) was survey research. The purposes of this research was to study the qualifications of graduate students for Thai Qualifications Framework for Higher Education which graduated in the academic year 2016. Population were 79 employers, questionnaire with 5 domains 5 rating scales and open end. Statistics were percentage, mean and standard deviation. This research found that the levels of employers satisfaction for graduate students in overall were highest. The sequences of 5 domains were intelligence skills, morale and ethics, knowledge, interpersonal skills and responsibility, numerical analysis skills communication and information technology skill with average 4.73, 4.67, 4.62, 4.56 and 4.52 respectively.
Y80|Enhancing the Competitiveness of E-commerce in Bangkok, Thailand|The objectives of this research were to study the current use of e-commerce in business and to find the guidelines for enhancing the competitiveness of e-commerce for businesses. This research employed quantitative and qualitative research methodologies. The research samples were 400 customers in e-commerce in Bangkok, Thailand. These samples were collected by simple random sampling method. The research tool for data collection was a questionnaire. Data were analyzed in terms of percentage, mean and standard deviation. The researcher also conducted interviews with 5 executives and computer staffs of e-commerce organizations in Bangkok, Thailand. They were selected by purposive sampling. The research result revealed that enhancing the competitiveness of e-commerce business were as follows: 1) e-commerce organizations must set up clear policies for e-commerce business, 2) appropriate marketing and promotions of e-commerce must be reviewed and improved, 3) good system security must be determined, and 4) modern technology must be applied for e-commerce, continuously.
Y80|Satisfaction of Graduate School Students toward access on the Graduate School website of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University|This research aims to: studied the satisfaction level of graduate school students toward access on Graduate School website of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University. This study used a quantitative research approach. The research sample consisted of 132 individuals including graduate and post graduate students of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University. The sample was obtained by simple random sampling. A questionnaire was used as a data collection method. The data were then analyzed by descriptive and inferential statistics. The research results showed that: the sampling has knowledge and understand on computer in middle level. In the same time, satisfaction level of these students almost to access on Graduate School website of Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University in middle level. The sampling satisfaction to access the information from graduate school in middle level. But satisfaction on the public relation in high level. And satisfaction on academic data in high level. Moreover, other information such as web board or recommendation almost in middle level of the satisfaction. Conclude that in the holistic, almost of the samplings to access this website are in middle level.
Y80|Job Satisfaction, Job Motivation, and Efficiency in Work Performance of the Hotel Employees: A Case of Thainum Riverside Hotel, Thailand|The main objectives of this research were to study job satisfaction, job motivations, and efficiency in work performance of employees in the Thainum Riverside Hotel, Thailand and to analyze their demographic profile on their job satisfaction, job motivations, and efficiency in work performance. This study employed a quantitative research methodology. A questionnaire was used to collect the data. The collected data were then analyzed with descriptive analysis including frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation, and t-test. The sample included 100 employees of the Thainum Riverside Hotel. The research findings showed that the overall satisfaction of the employee on their job was at a high level and their satisfaction on the rate of remuneration was rated the highest, followed by that on superordinate, and the characteristics of their job. In terms of their job motivation, it was found that their motivation was at a high level. The most rated motivation was the unique characteristics of their job, followed by incentives and benefits. As for the efficiency in their work performance, the findings indicated that the work performance of these employees were high. This was evidenced from the compliments from colleagues and superordinate and the achievement of the goals.
Y80|Customers? Opinion on the Service Quality of the Currency Exchange Service|The aims of the research were to study the opinion of customers on the service quality of currency exchange business and to compare the opinion of customers with different demographic profile including gender, age, education level, career, and average income per month. A quantitative research was employed in this research. The research sample consisted on 400 customers who had an experience of using the service of the currency exchange service. A questionnaire was used as a data collection tool. The collected data were analyzed with descriptive statistics including frequency, percentage, standard deviation, t-test, One-Way ANOVA with a .05 level of statistic significance. The findings of the research showed that based on the opinion of the customers, they viewed that the overall service quality of currency exchange business was at a high level. When considering at each dimension of the service quality including the service venue, the service procedures, and the service providers, the customers also viewed that each of these dimensions were also at a high level. Moreover, it was also found that customers with different gender were likely to have no difference in their opinion on the service quality whereas those with different age, career, education level and average income per month tended to have different opinion on the service quality with a .05 level of statistical significance.
Y80|Carências habitacionais no Brasil e na América Latina : o papel do ônus excessivo com aluguel urbano|The last decade in Brazil has been marked by heavy investments in the real state sector. Despite such a significant flow of resources, an appraisal of indicators related to housing needs that have guided public policies in the sector exposes a relative persistence of the so-called housing shortage. This is mainly due to one of its four basic components: the urban rental affordability stress. In order to understand the behavior of this component, the present paper brings a conceptual discussion regarding the housing shortage indicator, by means of the theoretical framework provided by urban political ecology, as well as of a comparative analysis between the different calculation methodologies adopted by Latin American countries.
Y80|The #nofilter Self: The Contest for Authenticity among Social Networking Sites, 2002–2016|This study traces appeals to authenticity, over time, in the promotional material of leading social-networking sites (SNSs). Using the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine, the public-facing websites of major SNS platforms—beginning with Friendster in 2002—were sampled at six-month intervals, with promotional language and visuals examined for authenticity claims. The authors tracked these appeals, with attention to changes in promotional copy, through to July 2016, among the most popular social media services (as determined by English-language web presence and active monthly user figures or, when unavailable, reported network size). The study found that nearly all SNSs invoked authenticity—directly or through language like “real life” and “genuine”—in their promotional materials. What stood out was the profoundly reactive nature of these claims, with new services often defining themselves, openly or implicitly, against legacy services’ inauthenticity. A recurring marketing strategy, in other words, has been to call out competitors’ phoniness by substituting (and touting) some other, differently grounded mode of authenticity. Since the affordances of social sites, even those touting evanescence or anonymity, make them vulnerable to similar charges, the cycle gets replayed with numbing regularity.
Y80|When Care and Concern Are Not Enough: School Personnel’s Development as Allies for Trans and Gender Non-Conforming Students|Trans people—and particularly trans youth—have come to the forefront of political and educational discussions, especially as legislation has aimed to ensure that school personnel act as enforcers of state-level policies targeting trans youth. For this reason, and because research demonstrates that youth in schools form attachments to and receive support from school personnel, our research looks at school personnel’s development as allies. By analyzing focus group data following a training workshop, we explore how participants understand their roles as allies to trans and gender non-conforming youth. We found that trans issues were salient and participants expressed new knowledge about and openness towards transgender youth, as well as care and concern for their wellbeing. Nonetheless, many participants retained frames of understanding that relied on trans people as Other and that situated their roles as allies through the frameworks of protection and care. We argue that these understandings of trans youth and the role of allies reinforces cisnormativity, and we push for a more nuanced understanding of allyship that moves beyond knowledge, beliefs, attitudes and intended behaviors as markers of allyship to ensure that allies do not reproduce cisnormativity even in their support of trans and gender non-conforming youth.
Y80|Queer in STEM Organizations: Workplace Disadvantages for LGBT Employees in STEM Related Federal Agencies|Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals in U.S. workplaces often face disadvantages in pay, promotion, and inclusion and emergent research suggests that these disadvantages may be particularly pernicious within science and engineering environments. However, no research has systematically examined whether LGBT employees indeed encounter disadvantages in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) organizations. Using representative data of over 30,000 workers employed in six STEM-related federal agencies (the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation, NASA, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Department of Transportation), over 1000 of whom identify as LGBT, we compare the workplace experiences of LGBT employees in STEM-related federal agencies with those of their non-LGBT colleagues. Across numerous measures along two separate dimensions of workplace experiences—perceived treatment as employees and work satisfaction—LGBT employees in STEM agencies report systematically more negative workplace experiences than their non-LGBT colleagues. Exploring how these disadvantages vary by agency, supervisory status, age cohort, and gender, we find that LGBT persons have more positive experiences in regulatory agencies but that supervisory status does not improve LGBT persons’ experiences, nor do the youngest LGBT employees fare better than their older LGBT colleagues. LGBT-identifying men and women report similar workplace disadvantages. We discuss the implications of these findings for STEM organizations and STEM inequality more broadly.
Y80|Promoting Military Cultural Competence among Civilian Care Providers: Learning through Program Development|Military veterans and their families belong to a unique subculture. Several studies have identified the need for helping professionals to attain military cultural competence in order to practice more effectively. In order to address this need, a Midwestern state created a military culture certificate program (MCCP). The process of developing this program is described. Eighty-two participants of the MCCP completed a pretest survey assessing their knowledge, awareness, and self-confidence in working with this population. The majority of the participants had experience working with this population already, and their survey scores indicated moderate knowledge and moderate to high levels of overall self-efficacy. Pre-test scores indicated ten areas (six in knowledge and four in self-efficacy) that may deserve increased focus for programs and trainings on military culture. While the MCCP appeared to be generally effective, findings suggest that convenient adjunctive methods of obtaining information to enhance military cultural competence would also be helpful.
Y80|The Potential Scientist’s Dilemma: How the Masculine Framing of Science Shapes Friendships and Science Job Aspirations|In the United States, girls and boys have similar science achievement, yet fewer girls aspire to science careers than boys. This paradox emerges in middle school, when peers begin to play a stronger role in shaping adolescent identities. We use complete network data from a single middle school and theories of gender, identity, and social distance to explore how friendship patterns might influence this gender and science paradox. Three patterns highlight the social dimensions of gendered science persistence: (1) boys and girls do not differ in self-perceived science potential and science career aspirations; (2) consistent with gender-based norms, both middle school boys and girls report that the majority of their female friends are not science kinds of people; and (3) youth with gender-inconsistent science aspirations are more likely to be friends with each other than youth with gender normative science aspirations. Together, this evidence suggests that friendship dynamics contribute to gendered patterns in science career aspirations.
Y80|Fat People of Color : Emergent Intersectional Discourse Online|Though the general populace has been introduced to the idea of thin privilege, the fat activist movement has been slow in gaining momentum. This is due, in part, to the symbolic annihilation of “fat” people in media. Within the fat activist framework, women of color are often further excluded from the overarching discourse and white privilege is sometimes unacknowledged. Taking an intersectional approach, I examine the Tumblr page, Fat People of Color. I use Critical Technocultural Discourse Analysis (CTDA) to examine the images and conversations posted by users. Findings reveal that Fat People of Color uses an intersectional, communal approach to posit counter-narratives against normative ideas about white thinness. This research contributes to an understudied area of sociological inquiry by presenting an analysis of the experience of “fat” women of color within a feminist framework. Ignoring the variation of experiences strengthens the types of privileges that fat activism and feminism hope to dismantle.
Y80|Se Faire Voir with Jung and the Ethics of Psychoanalysis|This article is an important addition to my previous work of integrating Jungian and Lacanian psychoanalysis (see Complexes Tickling the $ubject). A main focus of this article is to use Zizek’s interpretation of Lacan’s writing on desire and drive in relation to my Heideggerian interpretation of Jung. As a result, this article is an important contribution to the literature because it shows the importance of the transcendent function; complexes and the Rosarium Philosophorum to elucidate the ethics of desire and drive. This article shows how Heidegger’s work in Being and Time and his interpretation of Nietzsche is important to detail the process of Lacanian psychoanalysis. Nietzsche’s books; Human All Too Human and The Gay Science will also be discussed as well as Sartre’s Being and Nothingness and Zizek’s writing on the cunning of reason; Kantian ethics; beyond the pleasure principle; Kierkegaard; Sisyphus; anxiety; Hitchcock; Gelassenheit ; the Gospel of Matthew and error as a fundamental passage to truth.
Y80|Muslim Woman Seeking Work: An English Case Study with a Dutch Comparison, of Discrimination and Achievement|The measurement of discrimination in employment is a key variable in understanding dynamics in the nature of, and change in “race relations”. Measuring such discrimination using ‘situation’ and ‘correspondence’ tests was influenced by John Rex’s sociological analyses, and earlier work, begun in America, was continued in England in the 1960s, and further replicated in Europe and America in later decades. This literature is reviewed, and the methodologies of testing for employment discrimination are discussed. Recent work in Britain and the Netherlands is considered in detail in the light of changing social structures, and the rise of Islamophobia. Manchester, apparently the city manifesting the most discrimination in Britain, is considered for a special case study, with a focus on one individual, a Muslim woman seeking intermediate level accountancy employment. Her vita was matched with that of a manifestly indigenous, white Briton. Submitted vitas (to 1043 potential employers) indicated significant discrimination against the Muslim woman candidate. Results are discussed within the context of Manchester’s micro-sociology, and Muslim women’s employment progress in broader contexts. We conclude with the critical realist comment that the “hidden racism” of employment discrimination shows that modern societies continue, in several ways, to be institutionally racist, and the failure to reward legitimate aspirations of minorities may have the effect of pushing some ethnic minorities into a permanent precariat, with implications for social justice and social control in ways which may deny minority efforts to “integrate” in society’s employment systems.
Y80|Receiving Assistance and Local Food System Participation|A body of literature has noted that local food systems (LFSs) may not involve active participation by individuals with lower incomes. This is, in part, a function of racial and class hegemony, as well as physical and financial accessibility of LFSs. LFS institutions, such as farmers’ markets, have been working to facilitate receipt of food assistance programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Charitable assistance programs, such as food banks, have also been actively working to engage in LFSs, for example, by making local foods available. However, little research has explored the role that receiving public or charitable assistance can play in influencing LFS participation. In this article, I utilize quantitative and qualitative data collected from across the state of Ohio to examine the relationship between receiving assistance and LFS participation for women, who remain predominately responsible for food provisioning in the U.S., including among those who participate in LFSs. Quantitative results suggest that receiving assistance can increase participation in LFSs. Qualitative data provides more nuanced information about the importance of food assistance for women who want to participate in LFSs, and suggest that it is essential that food cooperatives and farmers’ markets are equipped to receive food assistance programs, such as SNAP, in order for women with lower incomes to participate in LFSs.
Y80|Perceptions of the Social Relevance of Science: Exploring the Implications for Gendered Patterns in Expectations of Majoring in STEM Fields|Despite efforts to increase participation in science, technology, engineering and math fields (STEM), the role of students’ perceptions of the social relevance of science in guiding their expectations to major in STEM remains largely unexplored. Though science education scholars predict that perceptions of social relevance likely matter equally for boys and girls, gender scholars suggest that these perceptions should matter more for girls than boys. Using longitudinal data from a large, urban, low-income, and predominantly minority-serving district, this study examines the potentially gendered role of perceptions of social relevance in ninth graders’ expectations to major in STEM. Further, it examines these dynamics with respect to expectations to major in any STEM field as well as expectations to major in specific STEM fields. Findings largely support the perspective of gender scholars; perceptions of the social relevance of science positively and significantly predict female, but not male, students’ intentions to major in STEM (vs. non-STEM fields). Subsequent analyses that look at intentions to major in specific STEM fields reveal a similar pattern, such that perceptions of relevance positively predict female students’ intentions to major in the biological sciences, the physical sciences, and engineering, while male students’ intentions are not similarly impacted. By contrast, positive perceptions of the relevance of science predict a modest increase in interest in computer science for both boys and girls.
Y80|Planning a Career in Engineering: Parental Effects on Sons and Daughters|This paper examines the extent to which prospective engineers follow in their parents’ footsteps. Specifically, we investigate the connection between fathers’ and mothers’ employment in the engineering profession and the career plans of sons and daughters. We develop a number of reasons to expect an occupation-specific intergenerational association in this field, as well as hypotheses regarding gender-specific role-modeling. Data are drawn from the UCLA HERI Freshman Survey data spanning 1971 to 2011. The results point to clear and substantial effects on sons and daughters’ plans to pursue engineering, connections that cannot be explained by typical pathways such as social background, education and values. The evidence points to a pattern of increasing salience of mothers with respect to the career plans of their children, especially their daughters. The implications of these findings for the under-representation of women in engineering and for gender-specific family dynamics are discussed in the conclusion.
Y80|Beyond Depression and Suicide: The Mental Health of Transgender College Students|Research studies examining the mental health of transgender individuals often focus on depression, anxiety, and suicidal ideation through the use of clinic samples. However, little is known about the emerging adult (18–26 years old) transgender population and their mental health. The current study seeks to fill that gap by using a national dataset of college students (N = 547,727) to examine how transgender college students (n = 1143) differ from their cisgender peers regarding 12 different mental health conditions. Chi-square and regression analyses were conducted. Results demonstrate that transgender students have approximately twice the risk for most mental health conditions compared to cisgender female students. A notable exception is schizophrenia, in which transgender individuals have about seven times the risk compared to cisgender females. While these were significant findings, regression analyses indicate that being non-heterosexual is a greater predictor for mental health concerns. Implications for mental health practitioners at colleges and universities are discussed.
Y80|Democratic Institutions, Natural Resource Governance, and Ghana’s Oil Wealth|The literature on natural resources is endowed with works on countries that have experienced slow economic performance despite their abundant natural resources (resource curse), with the exception of Norway and other few countries. Strong institutions and good governance practices have been underscored as some of the explanatory factors to the high performance of the outlier countries. Ghana’s oil discovery in the era of its advancing democratic practices has led some to argue that the country might escape the resource curse phenomenon. While recognizing the importance of this argument, this article, however, argues that Ghana’s likelihood of escaping the resource curse could be problematic due to its exclusive emphasis on democratic governance without greater focus on oil sector governance. Drawing on the theory of agenda setting and the existing literature, the article makes the case for agenda shift in the debate on Ghana’s oil wealth and development. It stresses the need for a dualistic governance (the democratic and the oil sector) approach in the broader discourse on how Ghana can escape the resource curse.
Y80|Structural Disadvantage: Evidence of Gender Disparities in the Norwegian Pension System|Norway is a world leader in gender equality according to sustainable development performance indicators. This study goes beyond these indicators to investigate systemic economic disadvantages for women, focusing specifically on the Norwegian pension system. System dynamics modeling is used to understand how gender disparity is built into social systems. A significant contributor to the gender inequality in pensions is the difference in lifetime working hours due to childbearing/rearing. There are childcare policies in place to equalize lifetime working hours between the genders; however, these policies require women to conform to the pension system structure and outsource their childcare. The system dynamics modeling illustrates how social investment strategy requires women to conform to a masculine pension system if they want equivalent financial security when they reach retirement.
Y80|Erratum: Kudo, S.; et al. Population Aging: An Emerging Research Agenda for Sustainable Development. Soc. Sci. 2015, 4 , 940–966|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|Gender Differences in the Early Employment Outcomes of STEM Doctorates|The representation of women among STEM doctorates has grown over the past decades but the underrepresentation of women in the STEM labor force persists. This paper examines the immediate post-degree employment outcomes of nine cohorts of STEM doctorates who attained their degrees between 1995 and 2013. The results reveal both progress toward gender equity and persistent inequities. Contrary to historical gender disparities, a small female advantage has emerged in the attainment of tenure-track faculty positions, women are increasingly less likely than men to enter postdoctoral positions, and the flow of STEM doctorates into business and industry, which was once male dominated, is now gender neutral. Among the doctorates who do not follow the doctorate-to-faculty career path, women are as likely as men to “stay in STEM,” but less likely to attain research-oriented jobs. Gender segregation in occupational attainment and significant gender gaps in earnings, however, continue to be defining characteristics of the STEM labor force. The results show that the labor market disparities vary across STEM fields but are largely not attributable to the gendered impact of parenthood and dual-career marriage.
Y80|Collaboration and Gender Equity among Academic Scientists|Universities were established as hierarchical bureaucracies that reward individual attainment in evaluating success. Yet collaboration is crucial both to 21st century science and, we argue, to advancing equity for women academic scientists. We draw from research on gender equity and on collaboration in higher education, and report on data collected on one campus. Sixteen focus group meetings were held with 85 faculty members from STEM departments, separated by faculty rank and gender (i.e., assistant professor men, full professor women). Participants were asked structured questions about the role of collaboration in research, career development, and departmental decision-making. Inductive analyses of focus group data led to the development of a theoretical model in which resources, recognition, and relationships create conditions under which collaboration is likely to produce more gender equitable outcomes for STEM faculty. Ensuring women faculty have equal access to resources is central to safeguarding their success; relationships, including mutual mentoring, inclusion and collegiality, facilitate women’s careers in academia; and recognition of collaborative work bolsters women’s professional advancement. We further propose that gender equity will be stronger in STEM where resources, relationships, and recognition intersect—having multiplicative rather than additive effects.
Y80|Black Twitter: A Response to Bias in Mainstream Media|This paper seeks to shed light on the ways people of color, in the United States, are using social media to challenge racial bias. As part of this investigation, this paper draws on Critical Race Theory, Feminist Theory, and Digital New Media studies to examine the extent to which social media, while seen as a place for ‘play’ can also operate as a digital homespace, a space used as a tool for black women and men to (re)construct their bodies and identities, challenging the “controlling images” widespread in mainstream media and society at large. This paper employs the methods of content analysis and participant observation and find that these social media forums are not transformative by themselves but instead have little moments that make for resistance and a digital homespace.
Y80|Dinner and a Conversation: Transgender Integration at West Point and Beyond|In 2016, the United States military lifted the ban on transgender members serving and are expected to begin accessions of transgender service members in 2017. A paucity of research exists on transgender matters in the military, especially on attitudes towards cisgender service members. This study deploys a qualitative methodology, comprised of 21 focus groups of undergraduate cadets and advanced schooled Army officers ( N = 110), at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, using a semi-structured interview protocol. Overall, a diversity of experiences and familiarity with transgender people surfaced among cadets and officers. We distinguish between experiences and familiarity on a spectrum by introducing notions of transgender tourism and cosmopolitanism. Major concerns associated with (un)comfortableness emerged from the focus groups including privacy, physical standards, well-being, and costs. Interventions are offered by the participants based on their major concerns. We recommend education, increased cosmopolitism, privacy considerations, narrowing the civil-military propinquity gap, and more studies of diversity and inclusion issues in the military.
Y80|Active Listening Attitude Scale (ALAS): Reliability and Validity in a Nationwide Sample of Greek Educators|The present study examined the Active Listening Attitude Scale (ALAS) validity and reliability in a sample of 3955 Greek educators. The sample was randomly split and an exploratory factor analysis (EFA) was conducted in the even subsample to evaluate the scale’s construct validity. A confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was performed in the odd subsample to confirm the three-factor model identified by the EFA. The chi square test (χ 2 ) of the model was significant ( p < 0.05), due to the large sample size. The root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), the comparative fit index (CFI) and the goodness of fit index (GFI) values were 0.079, 0.969 and 0.960, respectively, further supporting the fit of the three-factor model. Cronbach’s alpha coefficient was used to test internal consistency reliability and was satisfactory exceeding 0.72 for ALAS subscales. The intercorrelations of the three subscales were all positive and significant ( p < 0.001), ranging from 0.20 to 0.42. Student’s t -tests and the computation of effect sizes revealed that women scored higher on Listening Skill and Conversation Opportunity, while principals and participants trained on mental health promotion scored higher on all three subscales. The analyses confirmed the three-factor model of ALAS and demonstrated its validity and reliability in measuring Greek teachers’ active listening attitudes.
Y80|Gender in Engineering Departments: Are There Gender Differences in Interruptions of Academic Job Talks?|We use a case study of job talks in five engineering departments to analyze the under-studied area of gendered barriers to finalists for faculty positions. We focus on one segment of the interview day of short-listed candidates invited to campus: the “job talk”, when candidates present their original research to the academic department. We analyze video recordings of 119 job talks across five engineering departments at two Research 1 universities. Specifically, we analyze whether there are differences by gender or by years of post-Ph.D. experience in the number of interruptions, follow-up questions, and total questions that job candidates receive. We find that, compared to men, women receive more follow-up questions and more total questions. Moreover, a higher proportion of women’s talk time is taken up by the audience asking questions. Further, the number of questions is correlated with the job candidate’s statements and actions that reveal he or she is rushing to present their slides and complete the talk. We argue that women candidates face more interruptions and often have less time to bring their talk to a compelling conclusion, which is connected to the phenomenon of “stricter standards” of competence demanded by evaluators of short-listed women applying for a masculine-typed job. We conclude with policy recommendations.
Y80|The Politics of Race, Administrative Appeals, and Medicaid Disenrollment in Tennessee|In 2004, Democratic Governor Philip Bredesen of Tennessee announced a plan to reform TennCare, the state’s Medicaid program. The reform package proposed to remove 323,000 adults from the program, which represented the most drastic cuts to Medicaid since its creation in 1965. The reform measure also allowed beneficiaries disenrolled from the program to appeal the decisions to the state Department of Human Services. This study examines how race and policy backlash—that is the backlash against Medicaid expansion—influenced the appellate process for beneficiaries removed from the program in Tennessee. The main argument is that race—especially the predisposition of African Americans—influenced the outcome of the appellate proceedings. The theoretical framework advanced in this study explains how procedural deliberations (legal decisions, policy disputes, administrative hearings) exacerbate disparities and produce differential outcomes that correspond with racial and other ascriptive hierarchies. The data for this research, comprising more than 60,000 former TennCare beneficiaries, were obtained through Open Records Requests in compliance with Tennessee state law. Using logistic regressions, the findings reveal a relationship between race and appellate proceedings. African Americans were treated unfairly in the early stage of the appellate process and those from racially polarized voting areas were less likely to receive fair rulings by hearing examiners. Additional findings identified age-related disparities between younger and older appellants, as well as a regional disadvantage between rural and urban beneficiaries.
Y80|Smallholder Farmers’ Perceptions on Climate Change and the Use of Sustainable Agricultural Practices in the Chinyanja Triangle, Southern Africa|In developing regions with high levels of poverty and a dependence on climate sensitive agriculture, studies focusing on climate change adaptation, planning, and policy processes, have gained relative importance over the years. This study assesses the impact of farmer perceptions regarding climate change on the use of sustainable agricultural practices as an adaptation strategy in the Chinyanja Triangle, Southern Africa. In this empirical approach, we adopt methods that account for the plausibility that unmeasured characteristics exist, which are correlated with perceptions and the adoption of Sustainable Agricultural Practices. We use a unique and representative dataset collected in December 2012 and June 2013, from smallholder farmers in the Chinyanja Triangle. The results indicate that farmer’s perceptions significantly influence the use of sustainable agricultural practices. Specifically, we established that farmer perceptions considerably impact the use of grain legume rotations, inorganic fertilizers, compost, and farmyard manure. Our results highlight the need for a serious and perhaps equal consideration of farmer perceptions regarding climate change, as important inputs to climate change adaptation policies targeted at enhancing climatic resilience in smallholder farming communities. This is plausible as the adaptation and pliability of farmers to the effects of climate change should be a social process involving the collective efforts from various stakeholders.
Y80|At the Interface of National and Transnational: The Development of Finnish Policies against Domestic Violence in Terms of Gender Equality|Although gender inequalities are the main social mechanisms behind the (re)production of domestic violence, policy responses to domestic violence as a gender-related problem vary at both the national and transnational levels. This article examines the interaction between national and transnational policies against domestic violence, focusing on how domestic violence is constructed as a gender-related problem in Finland, a Nordic welfare state that is often cited as a role model in gender equality. Using the conception of policies as historically changing and culturally specific discourses, this article offers an overview of the ways in which the perspective on domestic violence of the transnational feminist movement has been engaged and transformed in the Finnish context over the five last decades. It is shown that transnational pressure has played a critical role in pushing Finland towards a stronger recognition of domestic violence as a gender issue. However, this transformation has taken place rather within the framework of more neutral “women-friendly” welfare policies than within a feminist framework. The article concludes that the Finnish way of translating transnational norms to the national level is characterized by a tendency to modify the transformative meanings underpinning the transnational feminist discourses to a more gender-neutral form.
Y80|Left Numb and Unengaged. (Re)Conceptualising Risk: What (Seems to) Work for at-Risk Students|This review of current research into ‘at-risk’ programs serves to categorise and characterise existing programs and to evaluate the contribution of these programs to assisting students ‘at-risk’ from marginalised backgrounds. This characterisation questions the (sometimes) implicit assumptions and the consequences of those assumptions inherent in and behind these various accounts. Using as a lens the (various and varied) understandings of social justice and the goals of education, three sometimes overlapping and sometimes contesting standpoints are identified in relation to ‘at-risk’ students; they are characterised as instrumentalist or rational technical, social constructivist or individualist, and critical transformative or empowering. I argue that a critical transformative understanding of ‘at-risk’ may deliver improved outcomes for young people by challenging ‘the school context in which the young people are located’.
Y80|Policy Discourses and Marginal Places: Histories of Environmental Democracy in India and Sweden|Past decades have been marked with grassroots struggles around the use and access to natural resources such as forests, both in the global South and in the global North. On the one hand, we have politicians, bureaucrats and others needing to deal with these issues at the national and global level. On the other, we have the material practices and struggles at the local level as well as a parallel discourse on decentralization to local areas from the past few decades. By tracing the historical changes in policies that touch on forests-peoples relationships in India and Sweden, I contextualize these trends by placing them in a historical context and examine the questions that are central to a critical examination for environmental governance today. I analyze how environmental policy-making shaped forest politics in the two places and what spaces it provided for environmental democracy—especially in relation to possibilities for people’s participation and for gender equality. I bring attention to the imperative to take account of questions of increasing expert dominance in environmental governance and local struggles, the space for local people’s participation in forest and rural politics, the gendering of these spaces and relationships and how that affects environmental politics.
Y80|Forests and Food Security: What’s Gender Got to Do with It?|Hunger remains a key development problem in the 21st century. Within this context, there is renewed attention to the importance of forests and their role in supplementing the food and nutrition needs of rural populations. With a concurrent uptake of “gender mainstreaming” for sustainable development, there is also a call for understanding the gendered dynamics of forest governance and food security. In this paper, we reviewed emerging research (2009–2014) on forests and food security and on the ways gender is said to matter. As with previous work on gender and natural resource management, we found that gender is an important variable; but how, to what degree and why are different in every context. That is, despite the suggestion of clear linkages, the relationships between gender, forests and food security are not generalizable across contexts. Understanding the relationship between forest resources and food security requires attention to gender disparities at the local level, but also to the broader political and economic context in which those disparities are reinforced. We flag the need to guard against ahistorical and technical approaches to gender and suggest some example research questions that use a more relational view of gender—one that examines how political economy and social power structure access to resources at multiple scales.
Y80|Land Access, Agricultural Land Use Changes and Narratives about Land Degradation in the Savannahs of Northeast Ghana during the Pre-Colonial and Colonial Periods|This paper discusses the evolution of socio-cultural and political relations that defined access to, use, and management of land resources in northeast Ghana during the pre-colonial and colonial periods. The aim is to historicise current meta-narratives about degradation of the natural landscape in the rural savannahs of northeast Ghana. Many of those degradation narratives take their root in the past during the colonial era, but the conceptual underpinnings of those narratives have remained essentially a-historical, a-political, and a-cultural. This paper shows that the organisation of space and land uses in pre-colonial communities in northeast Ghana was governed by certain traditional knowledge systems which were ignored by the colonial authorities. While narratives about landscape degradation by natives were propagated by the colonial government to justify a need to preserve the environment, their attempts to control land management matters were essentially for political and economic reasons. The study concludes that current policy frameworks on desertification and land management need to move beyond inherent historical biases. Rather, attention ought to be given to critical historical reflections on the dynamic processes by which variations in socio-economic relations of resource access/use, farming practices, land tenure arrangements, and political agendas interact with changes in the biophysical environment to produce different land cover trajectories over time.
Y80|Malthus and the Philanthropists, 1764–1859: The Cultural Circulation of Political Economy, Botany, and Natural Knowledge|Modernity does not possess a monopoly on mass incarceration, population fears, forced migration, famine, or climatic change. Indeed, contemporary and early modern concerns over these matters have extended interests in Thomas Malthus. Yet, despite extensive research on population issues, little work explicates the genesis of population knowledge production or how the process of intellectual transfer occurred during the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. This paper examines the Delessert network’s instrumental role in cultivating, curating, and circulating knowledge that popularized Malthusian population theory, including the theory’s constitutive elements of political economy, philanthropy, industry, agriculture, and botany. I show how deviant, nonconformist groups suffered forced migration for their political philosophy, particularly during the revolutionary 1790s, resulting in their imprisonment and migration to America. A consequence of these social shifts was the diffusion and dissemination of population theory—as a pursuit of scientific knowledge and exploration—across both sides of the Atlantic. By focusing on the Delesserts and their social network, I find that a byproduct of inter and intra continental migration among European elites was a knowledge exchange that stimulated Malthus’s thesis on population and Genevan Augustin Pyramus Candolle’s research on botany, ultimately culminating in Charles Darwin’s theory of natural selection and human evolution.
Y80|The Influence of Religiosity on Moral Judgment in Sport|The creation of a much clearer view on religiosity-morality relations was the basic goal of the present study. Another goal was to examine the impact of factors (gender, type of sports) that possibly effect the formation of moral content judgment and parts of religiosity within a sport environment. The participants were 258 athletes of the Christian Orthodox faith (180 males and 78 females). All participants were involved in the fourteen sports. They filled out the Moral Content Judgment in Sport Questionnaire (MCJSQ), the Santa Clara Strength of Religious Faith Questionnaire (SCSRFQ), and the Religious Schema Scale (RSS). Results showed an effect of gender and type of sports on moral judgment and religiosity, respectively. Results also revealed the predicting ability of religiosity on moral judgment with religious schemas presenting more intense participation than that of religious faith.
Y80|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Social Sciences in 2016|The editors of Social Sciences would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
Y80|Prisons as Panacea or Pariah? The Countervailing Consequences of the Prison Boom on the Political Economy of Rural Towns|The nascent literature on prison proliferation in the United States typically reveals negative impacts for communities of color. Given that Southern rural communities were the most likely to build during the prison boom (1970–2010), however, a more nuanced understanding of prison impact is warranted. Using a dataset matching and geocoding all 1663 U.S. prisons with their Census-appointed place, this study explores the countervailing consequences of the prison boom on rural towns across multiple periods. For example, locales that adopted prisons at earlier stages of the prison boom era received a short-term boom compared to those that did not, but these effects were not lasting. Furthermore, later in the boom, prison-building protected towns against additional economic decline. Thus, neither entirely pariah nor panacea, the prison functions as a state-sponsored public works program for disadvantaged rural communities but also supports perverse economic incentives for prison proliferation. Methodological, substantive, theoretical, and policy implications regarding the intersection of race and punishment are explored.
Y80|Transnationalism and Financial Crisis: The Hampered Migration Projects of Female Domestic Workers in Spain|The importance of transnational migration projects for international development has been increasingly recognized over the past decades. Migrants who move from the Global South or East to work in low-wage sectors such as construction, agriculture or domestic services in wealthier countries may contribute both to growth in the receiving countries and socio-economic development in their countries of origin. Parallel to scholarship on migration and development, research on the transnationalization of domestic work generally assumes that growing care needs and increasing demand for private household services in Western societies imply a continuing demand for migrant labour. However, since the global financial crisis broke out in 2008, unemployment among migrant workers has increased dramatically in many immigrant-receiving countries, Spain being among the most severely affected. Job destruction has so far been lower in the domestic sector than in other sectors occupying large numbers of migrant workers. Yet, we find that migrant domestic workers in Spain are affected by the recession both in terms of unemployment or underemployment and deteriorating job conditions, with transnational consequences such as loss of remittances. Many migrants find themselves in a situation of “standby,” trying to subsist while waiting for the recession to end.
Y80|Marriage Formation in Context: Four Decades in Comparative Perspective|Marriage formation is deeply embedded in societal context. This study documents trends towards lower marriage rates and delayed marriage in Europe and the US. Using time series analyses, it shows the relevance of economic and gender context in understanding marriage formation. The study extends previous work by including more countries, a longer time period, and by examining changes in predictors of marriage patterns over time. Analyses show that the association between economic context and marriage rates weakens over time, but the role of gender equality and policy context remain stable. Differences in age at first marriage across policy clusters are diminishing. Although greater gender equality is consistently linked to later marriage entry, the link between economic context and age at first marriage is changing. Changes in predictors of cross-national marriage patterns over time strongly suggest the institution of marriage itself is changing.
Y80|Reimagining the Hajj|Throughout the Middle East and the Islamic world, political and religious leaders are being pulled into sharpening debates over rival approaches to reforming the Hajj. For at least two decades, Hajj controversies have deepened with rising death tolls among the pilgrims and with soaring complaints about corruption and incompetence against pilgrimage managers in Saudi Arabia and dozens of other countries. Demands for Hajj reform are reaching new peaks after Saudi officials recently revealed stunning details of the scope and magnitude of pilgrim fatalities during the last 14 years. The Saudi data leave little doubt that the quality of care for Hajjis varies enormously depending on several key factors which policy makers and religious leaders must address with greater honesty and determination. Year in and year out, the most vulnerable pilgrim populations are poor people, women, and children from across Africa and Asia as well as foreign workers, refugees, and illegal migrants living in Saudi Arabia. Most of the current proposals for Hajj reform ignore these high-risk groups. Saudi planners focus on promoting year-round pilgrimage to boost tourism revenues and high-end infrastructure. In most other countries, government-run Hajj agencies are busy cutting market-sharing deals with private business cartels and their political patrons. The combined effect of these policies is to weaken what remains of already inadequate regulations that are vital to the protection of all Hajjis. Meanwhile, support is also growing for more sweeping proposals to reimagine and reinvent the Hajj instead of fine-tuning the status quo. Some of these reforms are particularly likely to test the ingenuity and influence of leaders from all backgrounds because they challenge longstanding custom. A few of the most unconventional suggestions include lengthening the Hajj season to several months as well as linking the Hajj to pilgrimages and festivals of other world religions throughout the year.
Y80|Enhancing Intersectional Analyses with Polyvocality: Making and Illustrating the Model|Since the inception of the intersectionality framework by feminists over three decades ago, scholars have advanced the analysis and subsequent understanding of peoples’ social locations, identity constructions, and systems of oppression involving gender, ethnicity, religion, class, and caste, to name a few. Considering these axes of differentiation as mutually constitutive rather than only as individual factors has been the single most important innovation. However, intersectionality has yet to reach its potential theoretically, methodologically, and practically. For instance, the framework is rarely applied to social phenomena that extend beyond the confines of a given nation-state. In previous publications, we have addressed this shortcoming by arguing for applying intersectionality across multiple social scales (intimate, regional, national, and transnational). We have shown how any given person’s intersectionality can and often does shift according to the scale of analysis. In this article, we address another important way to strengthen intersectionality—bringing in polyvocality. That is, and drawing upon arguments originally made in postmodern critiques of “writing culture”, publications tend to reflect partial and/or limited perspectives, typically those reflecting researchers’ privileged, authoritative accounts. In this article, in contrast, we include different insider (ego) and outsider (ego’s relatives’ and the researchers’) perspectives. The article includes the theoretical and methodological argument for adding polyvocality to intersectionality and then applies the proposed model to an ethnographic case. We illustrate how intersectional constellations shift from voiced interpretation to voiced interpretation and, in so doing, deepen, expand, and problematize these same analyses.
Y80|Frozen in Time: How Disney Gender-Stereotypes Its Most Powerful Princess|Disney’s animated feature Frozen (2013) received acclaim for presenting a powerful heroine, Elsa, who is independent of men. Elsa’s avoidance of male suitors, however, could be a result of her protective father’s admonition not to “let them in” in order for her to be a “good girl.” In addition, Elsa’s power threatens emasculation of any potential suitor suggesting that power and romance are mutually exclusive. While some might consider a princess’s focus on power to be refreshing, it is significant that the audience does not see a woman attaining a balance between exercising authority and a relationship. Instead, power is a substitute for romance. Furthermore, despite Elsa’s seemingly triumphant liberation celebrated in Let It Go, selfless love rather than independence is the key to others’ approval of her as queen. Regardless of the need for novel female characters, Elsa is just a variation on the archetypal power-hungry female villain whose lust for power replaces lust for any person, and who threatens the patriarchal status quo. The only twist is that she finds redemption through gender-stereotypical compassion.
Y80|¿Qué Funciona, Para Quién, En Qué Aspectos, Hasta Qué Punto, En Qué Contexto Y Cómo? Una Introducción A La Evaluación Realista Y Sus Métodos<BR>[What Works, For Whom, In What Respects, To What Extent, In What Contexts, And How? An Introduction To Realist Evaluation And Its Methods]|Este artículo introduce la Evaluación Realista (ER) para el análisis de políticos públicas. La ER encuentra justificación en las limitaciones de prácticas dominantes, como las técnicas de evaluación de impacto, para ofrecer explicaciones sobre el porqué una intervención o programa tuvo (o no) resultado. La noción de cambio o transformación de la ER se centra en el estudio contextual de la agencia humana, o la forma en que individuos y colectividades actúan frente a iniciativas públicas o privadas orientadas a resolver problemáticas sociales. El texto se adentra en propuestas metodológicos para el despliegue de una ER en la práctica, tarea que implicará un trabajo interdisciplinario para refinar diferentes teorías sobre qué funciona, para quién, en qué aspectos, hasta qué punto, en qué contexto y cómo. Su adherencia al realismo científico hace de la ER una alternativa democrática, pero rigurosa, para contribuir en la generación de diseños más pertinentes de políticas públicas.
Y80|Cryptocurrency Voting Games|This work shows that weighted majority voting games occur in cryptocurrencies. In particular, two such games are highlighted. The first game, which we call the Rule Game, pertains to the scenario where the entities in the system engage in a voting procedure to accept or reject a change of rules. The second game, which we call the Attack Game, refers to the scenario where a group of entities in a cryptocurrency system can form a coalition to engage in double spending. For the Rule Game we provide analysis to argue that the Coleman’s preventive power measure is the appropriate tool for measuring a player’s influence in the game while for the Attack Game, we define a notion of stability based on the notion of minimal winning coalitions. For both the Rule Game and the Attack Game, we show how to analyse the games based on a snapshot of real world data for Bitcoin which is presently the most popular of all the cryptocurrencies.
Y80|Political Reforms vs. Undemocratic Institutional Arrangements in Hong Kong|This essay examines the recent political developments in Hong Kong. Specifically, it examines the problem of political accountability and unresponsive governance. The essay argues that lack of accountability is a byproduct of existing institutional arrangements – i.e., limited functional franchise, veto powers and institutional backdoors – which promote rent-seeking behavior among tycoons and undermine the economic freedoms of ordinary Hongkongers, who, dissatisfied with the current state of affairs, demand political reforms.
Y80|Mastering Languages, the Guarantee for a better Job?|Our globalized world asks more and more professionals and good specialists in different areas of communication on today’s labor market. The success is often conditional on their ability to manage languages and cultural barriers. Usually, the most important are that language skills and competences which are related to their professional areas. Therefore, are languages an instrument or a guarantee for a better job? This study will analyze the value of foreign languages on the European and business space and the advantages of having language knowledge on today’s labor market.
Y80|Combined application of CFD and flipped classroom practices in improving knowledge acqusition for an undergraduate water resources engineering related course|Water resources management plays an important role in achieving sustainable development and economic growth. The physical aspect of water management is associated to water resources engineering, which is mainly founded in fluid mechanics. We coupled computer fluid dynamics (CFD) and flipped classroom practices to improve the learning and teaching processes of an undergraduate course focused on the experimental aspect of fluid mechanics in Peru, an upper-middle-income economy. Under the light of our results, we believe that such combined application also results on a viable alternative for universities that may face limitations on implementing a physical fluid mechanics laboratory, and encourages the formation of cooperative clusters of academic institutions around high-performing ones, to create common-pool fluid mechanics sources of educational information.
Y80|The Importance of the Community Mediation. An Example of Practical Course|This paper aims to present the importance of community mediation current social life. As a result, authors can organize a mediation course community in which to express their design and their applications about the subject.
Y80|What publications metadata tell us about the evolution of a scientific community: the case of the Brazilian human–computer interaction conference series|Abstract Human–computer interaction (HCI) is a research field which engages different disciplines, interest groups and communities, and which has emerged in different countries at different times. To understand how the HCI research community has evolved in Brazil, this paper applies data and visual analytics to its main conference series, the Brazilian Symposium on Human Factors in Computing Systems, henceforth IHC. We have explored the metadata of all 340 full papers published in the 14 editions of IHC. Our goal was to investigate the evolution of the Brazilian HCI community so we can raise the level of “self-knowledge” and thus discuss strategies that can further help develop this research community. From our analysis, we could understand more deeply the authorship profile of our community and how it has changed over time, the co-authorship networks evolution, the prominent institutions and states, the reference profile and the research topics over time. We hope that this paper will contribute to inspire other scientific communities to analyze themselves, and encourage their own discussions.
Y80|The ordonomic approach to business ethics|'Ordonomics' is a research program that has been developed at the Chair of Economic Ethics at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg. It holds that business actors (persons and organizations) can employ morality as a 'factor of production', and that business ethics can be based on a specific rational-choice analysis that is fully in line with the established tradition of economic thinking. With regard to practice, the main point is that ordonomics offers a guiding concept for creating win-win solutions that help business firms to do well by doing good. With regard to theory, ordonomics offers a conceptual framework for business ethics that makes ethics and economics coherent and mutually compatible with each other.
Y80|Gender Equality and Economic Diversification|We show that gender inequality decreases the variety of goods countries produce and export, in particular in low-income and developing countries. We argue that this happens through at least two channels: first, gender gaps in opportunity, such as lower educational enrollment rates for girls than for boys, harm diversification by constraining the potential pool of human capital available in an economy. Second, gender gaps in the labor market impede the development of new ideas by decreasing the efficiency of the labor force. Our empirical estimates support these hypotheses, providing evidence that gender-friendly policies could help countries diversify their economies.
Y80|Social media use by public relations practitioners in Malaysia: An exploratory study|This exploratory study endeavored to examine if social media is being used by Public Relations (PR) practitioners in Malaysia to communicate about their organization with their constituents and if it is producing the desired results for their PR efforts. A previous study by Fitch (2009a; 2009b) found that PR practitioners in Malaysia and Singapore were hesitant to use new media because it meant a loss of human connection. In the present study, a total of 26 PR practitioners of which 18 were PR consultants responded to an online survey. A reliability test conducted on three completed questionnaires conveyed a 0.95 Cronbach Alpha value indicating a high internal consistency of the questionnaire. Two cross-checking questions were included to increase the validity of this study and to check for gaps between an organization’s existing PR practice and its future practices involving social media use for communication with its strategic publics. This study found that a large number of PR practitioners (22 or 84.6%) were actively using social media to communicate directly with their various constituents about their organizations and such communication involved their mission statements, value statements, the latest business news, updates and announcements. Social networking sites were the most used social media among all 22 (100%) respondents. 16 (72.7%) respondents agreed that social media communication with their constituents produced the desired results. These desired results included an increase in awareness, branding and popularity of the organization as well as an increase in sales. However, while respondents felt that social media puts the word out faster in addition to the fact that a majority of people are connected to it, there was caution from some practitioners that social media cannot be a standalone tool in PR. The implication for PR is that, it is not only about the tool being used but about the content being disseminated and the PR objective to be met suggesting that social media coupled with traditional media as well as direct audience-engagement needed to be used to support PR objectives. This study is valuable as it allowed the researchers to obtain responses from practitioners which are otherwise not easily obtainable. Most importantly, the findings of this study contradict Fitch’s (2009b) research that PR practitioners in Malaysia were hesitant to use new media because of a loss of interpersonal or human connection.
Y80|Demographic Transition Theory and Its Link to the Historical Economic Growth|In the absence of convincing evidence, data for Sweden and Mauritius are used in academic publications to illustrate the Demographic Transition Theory. These data are closely examined and found to be in clear contradiction of this theory. Demographic Transition Theory is also contradicted by the best available data for England. Other examples of contradicting evidence are also discussed.
Y80|Unified Growth Theory Contradicted by the Mathematical Analysis of the Historical Growth of Human Population|Data describing historical growth of human population, global and regional (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, former USSR, Africa and Latin America), are analysed. Results are in harmony with the earlier analysis of the historical growth of the world population in the past 12,000 years and with other independent studies. This analysis is also in harmony with the study of the historical economic growth. Within the range of analysable data, there was no Malthusian stagnation. Takeoffs from stagnation to growth, postulated by the Unified Growth Theory never happened. There were no escapes from the Malthusian trap because there was no trap in the growth of population. This analysis and the earlier studies of the Gross Domestic Product lead to the conclusion that there were also no takeoffs in the income per capita distributions, claimed by the Unified Growth Theory. Consequently, the claimed differential timing in takeoffs never happened. Unified Growth Theory is contradicted yet again by the mathematical analysis of the same data, which were used, but never analysed, during the formulation of this theory. The study presented here, as well as earlier publications on the related topics, shows also that certain fundamental postulates used in the economic and demographic research are repeatedly contradicted by the mathematical analysis of data.
Y80|Interpretations of Hyperbolic Growth|Hyperbolic growth describes the historical economic growth and historical growth of population, but their mechanism remains unexplained. Presented here is a brief survey of attempts to understand hyperbolic growth. Mathematical formulations are in general complicated and there is no clear advantage in using them because they do not give better description of data than the simple, two-parameter hyperbolic formula. They also do not explain the mechanism of growth. The well-known simple formula suggests a simple explanation. Two examples show how two independent investigations were on a brink of making an important and breakthrough discovery and how their potential discovery was thwarted by the established knowledge in demography and in economic research. Researchers who could have used their expertise to suggests new research directions and to advance science were constrained by doctrines, which are widely accepted by faith.
Y80|The Unresolved Mystery of the Great Divergence is Solved|The so-called great divergence in the income per capita is described in the Unified Growth Theory as the mind-boggling and unresolved mystery about the growth process. This mystery has now been solved: the great divergence never happened. It was created by the manipulation of data. Economic growth in various regions is at different levels of development but it follows similar, non-divergent trajectories. Unified Growth Theory is shown yet again to be incorrect and scientifically unacceptable. It promotes incorrect and even potentially dangerous concepts. The distorted presentation of data supporting the concept of the great divergence shows that economic growth is now developing along moderately-increasing trajectories but mathematical analysis of the same data and even their undistorted presentation shows that these trajectories are now increasing approximately vertically with time. So, while the distorted presentation of data used in the Unified Growth Theory and the spuriously-created great divergence suggest the generally sustainable and secure economic growth, the undistorted presentation of data demonstrates that the growth is unsustainable and insecure. Similar dangerously incorrect concept promoted by the Unified Growth Theory is the repeated doctrine of takeoffs from the hypothetical but non-existent stagnation to growth. They also suggest prosperous and secure future. Such takeoffs never happened but even without them the current economic growth is insecure.
Y80|The Law of Growth|A simple law of growth is formulated. It links growth trajectories with the driving force and thus furnished an easy way to study and interpret the mechanisms of growth. The application of this law is illustrated by examples.
Y80|Puzzling Properties of the Historical Growth Rate of Income Per Capita Explained|Galor discovered many mysteries of the growth process. He lists them in his Unified Growth Theory and wonders how they can be explained. Close inspection of his mysteries reveals that they are of his own creation. They do not exist. One of his claimed mysteries is the mystery of the alleged sudden spurt in the growth rate of income per capita and in the growth of population. This sudden spurt never happened. Precisely the same data, which were used in support of the Unified Growth Theory are in fact in its direct contradiction. They show that the created mysteries of growth do not exist. The difference between the diametrically opposite conclusions is that in order to support the Unified Growth Theory and to create the mysteries of growth data were appropriately manipulated and distorted but the contradicting evidence is based on their rigorous analysis. The mechanism of the historical economic growth and of the growth of human population is yet to be explained but it would be unproductive to try to look for explanations in the Unified Growth Theory. However, the problem is much deeper than just the examination of this theory. Demographic Growth Theory is based on the incorrect but deeply entrenched postulates developed by accretion over many years and now generally accepted in the economic and demographic research, postulates revolving around the concept of Malthusian stagnation and around a transition from stagnation to growth. The study presented here and earlier similar publications show that these postulates need to be replaced by interpretations based on the mathematical analysis of data and on the correct understanding of hyperbolic distributions.
Y80|Scientifically Unacceptable Established Knowledge in Demography and in Economic Research|The established knowledge in demography and in the economic research is based on the concept of Malthusian stagnation and on the associated concept of the escape from the Malthusian trap. These two fundamental concepts were gradually enforced by numerous other related postulates all aimed at explaining the mechanism of the historical growth of population and of the historical economic growth. Examples of publications based on the established knowledge are closely examined. They are used to show why the established knowledge is scientifically unacceptable. It is also pointed out that the established knowledge is contradicted by data and by their analyses. Interpretations of the historical economic growth and of the historical growth of population has to be based on accepting hyperbolic growth. However, the discussed examples point to a more serious problem in these two fields of research. It is a fundamental systemic problem, the problem associated with the way research is conducted. Doctrines, interpretations and declarations used by the established knowledge have to be accepted by faith. Data are either ignored or manipulated to support preconceived ideas. Contradicting evidence is methodically ignored. To be recognised as science, demographic and economic research has to adhere to the scientific rules of investigation.
Y80|Mechanism of Hyperbolic Growth Explained|Fundamental law of growth is used to explain the mechanism of hyperbolic growth of human population and of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Hyperbolic growth is described by a simple mathematical formula and the explanation of its mechanism turns out to be also simple. Historical economic growth was prompted by the familiar net market force, which was on average directly proportional to the existing wealthexpressed usually as the GDP. The larger was the GDP, the stronger was the driving force and the faster was the economic growth. It is shown that this simple force generates hyperbolic growth. No other force is required. Hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force. Historical growth of population was prompted by thebiologically driven force of procreation, which was on average approximately constant per person. This force includes the natural, familiar, biologically controlled process of births, aging and dying. Here again, hyperbolic growth is not assumed but derived when using this force.Explanation of two demographic transitions in the past 12,000 years in the growth of population and of the currently experienced transition is also proposed. Currently, economic growth and the growth of population are no longer unconstrained. Other additional forces contribute significantly to the growth process and the growth is no longer hyperbolic.
Y80|Growth of the World Population in the Past 12,000 Years and Its Link to the Economic Growth|Data describing the growth of the world population in the past 12,000 yearsare analysed. It is shown that,if unchecked, population does not increase exponentially but hyperbolically. This analysis reveals three approximately-determined episodes of hyperbolic growth: 10,000-500 BC, AD 500-1200 and AD 1400-1950, representing a total of about 89% of the past 12,000 years. It also reveals three demographic transitions: 500 BC-AD 500, AD 1200-1400 and AD 1950-present, representing the remaining 11% of the past 12,000 years. The first two transitions were between sustained hyperbolic trajectories. The current transition is to an unknown trajectory. There was never any form of dramatic transition from stagnation to growth, described often as a takeoff, because there was no stagnation in the growth of the world population. Correct understanding of the historical growth of human population is essential in the correct interpretation of the historical growth of income per capita.
Y80|The dichotomy of Malthusian positive checks: Destruction and even more intensified regeneration|Impacts of Malthusian positive checks are investigated using data compiled by the United Nations Development Program. We show how the intensity of Malthusian positive checks are correlated with indicators describing the standard of living such as ecological footprint, income per capita, severe poverty, access to pure water and access to sanitation facilities. We then show that mortality increases exponentially with the intensity of Malthusian positive checks (adult mortality, under-five mortality, maternal mortality and deaths by polluted water). However, total fertility rate also increases exponentially. The surprising result of our analysis is that the growth rate and the rate of natural increase are directly proportional to the intensity of Malthusian positive checks. The regenerating impacts triggered by Malthusian positive checks do not just keep the growth undisturbed – they stimulate growth and make it even faster. Using data for Africa, we show that while the death rate increases with the intensity of hunger, total fertility rate, birth rate and the rate of natural increase also increase. Records from China also show that Malthusian positive checks of wars and famines triggered the intensified growth of population. Thus, contrary to the generally promoted interpretations, hunger and famines do not necessarily suppress the growth of population. Similar patterns of stress-induced growth are also observed in nature. This study is closely related to the problem of controlling the growth of human population.
Y80|Industrial Revolution did not Boost Economic Growth and the Growth of Population even in the United Kingdom|Data describing economic growth and the growth of human population in the United Kingdom are analysed. Contrary to the widely accepted interpretations, Industrial Revolution had no impact on shaping trajectories of economic growth and of the growth of population. Within the range of analysable data, there was also no Malthusian stagnation. Consequently, there was no escape from Malthusian trap because there was no trap in the economic growth and in the growth of human population. The United Kingdom was the centre of the Industrial Revolution and yet its data are in the direct contradiction of the currently accepted interpretations. It is fortunate that natural processes did not comply with our fanciful and wished-for explanations of the mechanism of growth. If they did, if the generally claimed takeoffs did occur, it would have been a disaster because economic growth and the growth of population would have been already unmanageable everywhere.
Y80|Noun Gender in Romanian, a Lexical-Semantic Category|The aim of our research is to prove the fact that the gender of Romanian nouns cannot and should not be considered a grammatical category, but a lexical-semantic category, since this part of speech has gender even at a lexical level, a category that also ascends to the immediately superior level: the grammatical one. In contemporary grammar treatises, numerous linguists argue that gender belongs to the axis of grammatical categories that are specific to the Romanian noun, along with number, case and determination. At the same time, it is not a novelty that the gender of nouns, at the level of this entire class in the Romanian language, even where the phenomenon of gender suffixation is involved, does not represent a flectional criterion for this lexical-grammatical class, which does not have distinct opposable forms that mark out the class in question, unlike in the case of pronouns, adjectives or numerals. The actualization of the gender category in nouns, compared to its materialization in the other parts of speech that feature it and in which its status is undoubtedly that of a grammar category, should be discussed in entirely different terms. The grammaticalization of gender that has three components – masculine, feminine and neuter – in the other parts of speech from the nominal group confirms the existence of this category in nouns, but does not entail its grammaticalization in this lexical-grammatical class. Asserting that the gender of nouns is a fixed, given category pertains to the semantics of the part of speech in question. The oppositions between the category members are achieved between different lexemes, hence, outside the flective, and not between different flectional units and/or subunits.
Y80|The Era of Crowning the Woman, as a Feminine Era|The present paper starts from a “gender relations” analysis to other explorations within the theological classic discourse (marked by the patriarchal pattern and by a marginality of woman condition, both as “Creator of values and civilization, of life and education”, and also, as a “positive presence, endowed with a personal, legitimate conception and discourse about the world, the gender relations and about herself”). We bring into attention challenging paradigms as “Feminine Era’, “Eon of Holy Spirit”, “The Era of Crowning the Woman” as tools for exploring modalities of surpassing the vitiated, obsolete pattern of patriarchalism and to search for real femininity, for real feminine values and ways of conceiving and transforming the world and the human being, the history, the theological discourse and the axiology. All these paradigms have as premise the woman as active, dynamic, creative, multi-dimensional, affirmative presence, capable and willing to enter into history and to shape it according to her perspectives and values. It is an Age of feminine dynamism and involvement in the private and public decisions, in the regional, national, trans-national and global decisions, in the theological, political, civilizational decisions, anywhere the patriarchal pattern exists. In this Era of the Woman, under the inspiration and the gifts of the Holy Spirit that is the Life Creating God, the feminine power is perceived as being construed in terms of love, care, protection of the underprivileged, marginalized, poor categories. Woman is taking the lead, by affirming her beauty, splendour and multi-dimensional ways of being herself, away from the limited and vitiated pattern of patriarchalism.
Y80|The Graphic Novel – a Representation Medium of the Contemporary Society|The Graphic Novel obtained its cultural legitimization after a period of more than two Centuries when the Comic Strip had been unfairly considered as entertainment culture, vulgar and childish type of reading, or an environment for the propagation of illiteracy, violence and vices, with demoralizing and anti-educative effects. All these are implied within the meaning of the very term that made the Comic Strip famous: comics. Starting with the second half of the Twentieth Century many artists have written graphic novels where they have argued with complex socio-political problems, such as war and peace, democracy and totalitarianism, the concern for the environment, racism and intolerance, unemployment, the role of the individual in the society, depicting protests and social movements. In this article we render how the Graphic Novel, as a medium for the representation of the contemporary society, has contributed to the classification of the Comic Strip as the 9th Art. We shall analyse genres and topics addressed by artists, aiming at increasing the quality of discourse and narrative image in parallel with the cultural awareness of the public. We will also follow the process for the cultural legitimization of the Comic Strip from a criticised and censored reading to a respected one, with intellectual value, resulting in the inclusion of Comics in art galleries, museums and festivals mainly intended for adult audience.
Y80|Tradition and Universality in Romanian Modern and Contemporary Portraiture|In Romanian art, portraiture evolved throughout a significant period, starting the medieval times until the present, and went through numerous changes in vision and technique. In this article, we will refer to a series of aspects specific to the modern and contemporary era of Romanian art, which are periods of maximum blossom of portraiture, when many artistic personalities distinguished themselves. We intend to analyse a series of remarkable works of art that have become true benchmarks of portraiture. We will refer to some of the most representative creators who stood out in this artistic genre, by evoking famous names of notable portraitists of the past two centuries. Touched by influences of western art but keeping, at the same time, an important genuineness mark due to our national cultural specificity, the evolution of Romanian portraiture aligned with the broader European trend of the genre, being recognized due to an individualized approach of features as well as to a careful speculation of the psychological depths of the represented models. In the current context, all these aspects concur in a character of integration of these works in the much more complex universal artistic phenomenon of portraiture.
Y80|The Preposition-Opposeme of the Romanian Substantival Non-Ts|The aim of our paper is to prove that, in the Romanian language, at the intrapropositional level, the preposition/prepositional phrase can actualize two hypostases: preposition-relateme, marking the presence of relational meaning, vs preposition-opposeme, marking the absence of relational meaning, depending on the syntactic position in which it occurs alongside certain parts of speech with the status of lexemes, our analysis focusing on the substantival class: structural syntactic position of the type part of sentence and syntactical function, whatever these are, vs. non-structural syntactic position. Apposition or – as it is accepted, from a didactic point of view, by the Cluj-based neotraditional relational School of Grammar with which our research is affiliated – real apposition, by contrast with false apposition, is considered by G. G. Neamþu to be a non-structural syntactic position of the parenthetic or explanatory type, a peculiar syntactic phenomenon, which cannot be relationally subsumed through either coordination or subordination; in other words, it is a syntactical non-function or a non-Ts, regardless of the part of speech through which it is expressed. The placement of the preposition/prepositional phrase in front of the apposition does not change the non-relational context in which the latter is found (it becomes a preposition-opposeme and the apposition remains a non-Ts) or the casual substantival regime of this morphological value; it imposes, in the case of the substantival class that follows it (since Romanian is an inflected language), one of three possible cases – the accusative, the genitive or the dative. In the absence of the preposition/prepositional phrase, the flective of the substantival apposition represents, in its entirety, an opposeme (a unit of expression without a relational sense), a flective-opposeme, as the expression of the grammatical categories of opposition, implicitly, and the case, a flective-opposeme of case, the latter existing in a dichotomy with the flective-relateme of case, which may be actualized in certain syntactic structural positions of the type part of sentence and syntactic function, in the absence of the preposition-relateme.
Y80|Direct versus Indirect Rewards for the Attraction of the Employees|What do employees need most in terms of rewards? There is a “optimum package” for rewarding? What percentage of direct and indirect rewards should contain a reward strategy? These are only a few of questions that are elucidated with this paper. In order to make a clear image about direct and indirect possible rewards, this article defines: wages, bonuses, premium pay, participation at profit, different incentives, other direct rewards, mandatory and pension rewards, insurances, paying the not worked time and other indirect rewards and benefits. Further, the theoretical background move forward and make connections also to the legislative connotation of the rewards. The main legislative texts discussed that influence Human Resource Management in terms of direct and indirect rewards are: Law 571/2003 from the Fiscal Code, Title IV from the Labour Code and Employee Benefits from the International Accounting Standards.
Y80|"""The Senior Tourism"" in Russia: the Study of Motivation and Satisfaction Customers"|"In the study, we carried out a street survey, the objective being to identify the needs of older people in cultural and recreational activities. The results, based on a convenience sample of 195 people aged 65 years and older. The survey involved older people from St. Petersburg and guests of the city. Our study showed that the majority of older people want to lead an active life, to gain additional knowledge and skills to master new technologies, to communicate, to fill life with events, get positive emotions. Surprising: when conducting a sociological survey respondents did not put deterioration in the financial position to retire in the first place among their problems. It was found that older people are easier to adapt to a worse financial situation than to constant psychological stress, loneliness. Loneliness is what worries people today. This is a powerful destabilizing factor affecting health and the psycho-emotional state. In this regard, it is possible to offer a number of promising products that use the technology of tourism and recreation for older people: educational technology, technology museum, creative educational and cultural technology; technology volunteer activities; social entrepreneurship. Development of specialized cultural and educational tours for the consumer segment ""the senior tourism"" on the basis of the above technologies will help an older person to engage actively in public life and to keep up with modern life, using his full potential and internal reserves. The paper gives examples of the best Russian cultural practices in the segment ""the senior tourism"". The paper contains proposals for the managerial implications for product development and marketing to the market ""senior tourism""."
Y80|Evaluating Training and Competences within Organisation's Leadership|This study investigates the training process of transformational leadership amongst Romanian (N-E region) managers in the service sector. Also, based upon existing literature, a generic conceptual model was developed, focussing on the impact of dependent variables, such as education and motivation, and one independent variable, transformational leadership. Five hypothesis have been tested in total, according to the answers of 35 managers, from organizations from all hierarchical levels. Results show a positive and significant relationship between the length of work and idealized influence, and a significant relationship between leaders’ education and inspirational motivation. The study reveals, also, a positive relationship between the intrinsic motivation and the transformational leadership style.
Y80|Clothing: from “Subsistence Rights” to the Category of “Comfort and Well-being Rights”|The present article represents only the personal opinion of the author and it does not involve in any form any other natural person or legal entity. All the rights over the present text are reserved. The quotations from the present text are made by mentioning the author and the complete source
Y80|Critical Perspectives on Evaluating the Corruption in the Republic of Moldova|This paper aims to bring critical opinions on the doctoral thesis of Mister Iurie Gaþcan, entitled „Corruption as a social phenomenon and the anti-corruption mechanisms (the case of the Republic of Moldova)”. The critical approach on the abovementioned paper was done from the perspective of an ethicist, fact which created a moment of reflection, referring to corruption, that Iurie Gaþcan sees both in a historical way, as a phenomenon of moral degradation of the society and the individuals, and in a sociological way, as a particular phenomenon “characteristic to the democratic organizations”. The author places corruption in the area of social reasoning by calling for the theory of functional bureaucracy proposed by Max Weber. This approach on corruption indisputably places it as a part of the social action. The emergence and development of corruption is correlated with anomia, rather being a dysfunction of the social system as a reversal of the normative area of the society.
Y80|Using Outcome Indicators to Improve Policies: Methods, Design Strategies and Implementation|This paper discusses the use of outcome indicators for policy monitoring. In addition to providing general recommendations on their design and implementation, it makes two contributions to the existing literature. First, it shows the importance of distinguishing outcome indicators from other types of indicators and demonstrates the need to develop clear policy objectives as a prerequisite for meaningful outcome indicators. Second, it analyses the use of outcome indicators in specific settings; on the sub-national level, in multi-level governance frameworks and in the context of EU cohesion policy. The paper argues that outcome indicators are better used in relational contracts than in transactional contracts between governments. Furthermore, it highlights the need to harmonise different monitoring frameworks within an administration.
Y80|Alexis Tsipras und der rhetorische Diskurs als Politik<BR>[Alexis Tsipras and the rhetorical discourse as Policy]|"Es existiert wohl keinerlei «Präzedenzfall», der in irgendeiner Weise vergleichbar wäre mit der vollkommenen Verwandlung des derzeitigen griechischen Ministerpräsidenten Alexis Tsipras und dessen Anpassung an die Anforderungen der griechischen Realität. Wahrhaft, all zu rasch übersetzte sich sein radikaler, unkonventioneller und extremer Diskurs gegen die in Griechenland seit 2010 implementierte harte Sparpolitik, in einen taktischen Rückzug. Die SYRIZA Partei, eine heterogene Mischung linker Strömungen, nutzte den Unmut der Bevölkerung gegenüber den schmerzhaft anmutenden Sparmaβnahmen des sogenannten griechischen Memorandums, um den eigenen machtpolitischen Senkrechtsstart voranzutreiben und sich ziemlich rasch von einer kleinen Protestpartei zu einer Machtpartei zu verwandeln. Dementsprechend transferierte diese Partei, ohne die geringste moralische Umschweife, die Verzweiflung der Bürger in einen extremen rhetorischen Diskurs der scheinbaren „Verteidigung sozialer Rechte“ hinein, jedoch mit dem Ziel des eigenen Wahlsieges und anschließend die Übernahme der Macht. Abstract English There is probably no ""precedent"", which would be comparable in any way with the perfect transformation of the current Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and its adaptation to the requirements of the Greek reality. Truly, all too quickly his radical, unconventional and extreme discourse against the implemented in Greece since 2010 tough austerity policy, is transformed into a tactical retreat.. The SYRIZA party, a heterogeneous mixture of left Groups , used the displeasure of the population to the painful-looking Austerity measures of the so-called Greek memorandum to advance their own political take off to power and rather rapidly to transform from a small protest party to a ruling party. Accordingly, this party transferred, without the slightest moral ado, the despair of the citizens in an extreme rhetorical discourse of apparent ""defense of social rights"" into it, however, with the aim of the own electoral victory and then the acquisition of power."
Y80|The architectural network for protein secondary structure prediction|Over the past 25 years, the accuracy of proteins secondary structure prediction has improved substantially. Recently evolutionary information taken from the deviation of proteins in some structural family have again enhance prediction accuracy for all these residues predicted correctly is in one of the three sates helix, strands and others . The new methods developed over the past few years may be interesting in context of improvements which is achieved through combination of the existing methods. Evolutionary divergences profile posses’ adequate information to improve protein secondary structure prediction accuracy. These profiles can also able to correctly predict long stretches of identical residues in other secondary structure. This sequence structure relationship may help to help to developed tool which can efficiently predict the protein secondary structure from its amino acid sequence.
Y80|The Islamic Political System: A Basic Value Approach|Any economic system will certainly be influenced in institutions and rules by the underlying political system. While the political processes are not carried out in the market, it can influence economic decisions related to consumption, saving, investment and exchange in no small way. Through the political processes, the shape of markets is formed, the taxation system is setup and government budget is determined. In addition, the political processes directly influence economic policies, including fiscal, monetary, trade and development policies, especially in the ways are formed and implemented. The analysis of the Islamic political system through the use of economic methodology is rare. It is common to provide historical analysis based on the experience of “Saqifah(t) Bani Saad” with the selection of the first Caliph Abu Bakr, as well as the method used to select the three following Caliph. This would involve a great deal of textual evidence and their interpretation. This paper presents an alternative approach to draw the main features of the Islamic political system from the basic Islamic values as well as contemporary human experiences. We start with identifying the most important Islamic values related to the field of politics, and set the salient features of a configuration of a contemporary political system that would fulfill such values. The first section deals with Islamic political values and in particular, those related to Tawheed, which we define it to be something more than just monotheism. In addition, we draw from contemporary Muslem literature the Islamic constitutional values. The second section discusses how Maqassed (ultimate objectives) of Shari'ah are related to the political system. The third section discusses economic theory of social choice. The fourth section discusses the sources of political failure and how they can be confronted. The fifth section discusses the choice between types of government. The sixth section discusses the lessons to be learnt from the government of Madinah. Finally, in the last section, a blueprint for an Islamic economic system is presented.
Y80|Redundancy, Unilateralism and Bias beyond GDP – results of a Global Index Benchmark|Eight out of ten leading international indices to assess developing countries in aspects beyond GDP are showing strong redundancy, bias and unilateralism. The quantitative comparison gives evidence for the fact that always the same countries lead the ranks with a low standard deviation. The dependency of the GDP is striking: do the indices only measure indicators that are direct effects of a strong GDP? While the impact of GDP can be discussed reverse as well, the standard deviation shows a strong bias: only one out of the twenty countries with the highest standard deviation is among the Top-20 countries of the world, but 11 countries among those with the lowest standard deviation. Let’s have a look at the backsides of global statistics and methods to compare their findings. The article is the result of a pre-study to assess Social Capital for development countries made for the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The study leaded to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) project World Social Capital Monitor.
Y80|Un Marco General para la Ciencia de la Sociedad Humana<BR>[A General Framework for the Science of Human Society]|This essay is meant as a contribution towards the integration of ‘the social sciences’ into a ‘science of human society’. For this it uses concepts and methods that economics has developed, but also questions the adequacy of mainstream economic theory in two aspects: a) the absence of a hierarchical class structure and consequent inter-class conflicts of interest, and b) the ‘benevolent government' or ‘social planner' approach to policy decisions. I construct three simple models where the first two are basically building blocks for the third. The first is a model of slaves and masters, the second of governed (clans) and governors and the third of capitalism (salaried workers, capitalist entrepreneurs, and governors). In each model, the agent(s) that have a higher rank in the hierarchy have the power to condition the decision rules of those below in a way that is similar to Stackelberg’s modeling of leader and follower firms within an oligopolistic industry. All agents in the model face a consumption/toil tradeoff. They have the same utility function albeit with class-specific parameters. The second model introduces public goods in consumption, which may have a negative impact on utility (public bads) for the governed, generating conflicting interests between the two classes. In each model, the agents deciding on the production of goods exert Planning, Organizing, Commanding and Controlling (POCC) work effort that enhances production but yields disutility. In the last two models the governing class exerts POCC work effort in the production of public goods and in the taxation necessary to finance it as well as its own consumption. The third model extends a basic model of monopolistic competition to include the Government and POCC work effort in the production of private and public goods. The distribution of income in terms of private goods is seen to depend entirely on decisions made by the upper class in the hierarchy. A more sophisticated distribution of ‘welfare’ could show much greater inequality due to possibly high levels of disutility due to public output which are public bads for workers but public goods for the upper classes. The framework is meant as a first approximation to a realistically more complex process where lower level classes have some degree of countervailing power (including elections, strikes, demonstrations, etc.). But that closer approximation could be modeled in different ways and would only modify the basic power structure reflected in the approximate model ‘in the margin’. RESUMEN Este ensayo pretende contribuir a la integración de ‘las ciencias sociales’ en una ‘ciencia de la sociedad humana’. Para ello usa conceptos y métodos que ha desarrollado la economía pero también cuestiona a la economía del mainstream en dos aspectos: a) la ausencia de una estructura jerárquica de clases y de conflictos de intereses inter-clases, y b) el enfoque del ‘gobierno benévolo’ o ‘planificador social’ para las decisiones de política. Construyo tres modelos sencillos de complejidad creciente. El primero es de esclavos y esclavistas, el segundo de (clanes) gobernados y gobernantes, y el tercero de capitalismo (asalariados, empresarios, y gobernantes). En cada modelo los agentes de mayor rango tienen el poder de condicionar las reglas decisorias de quienes están más abajo. Esto tiene similitud con la modelación de Stackelberg de empresas líderes y seguidoras en oligopolio. Todos los agentes confrontan un tradeoff consumo/esfuerzo y tienen la misma función de utilidad aunque con parámetros clase-específicos. El segundo modelo introduce los bienes públicos en el consumo, los que pueden tener impacto negativo sobre la utilidad (males públicos) de los gobernados, generando conflicto de intereses entre clases. En cada modelo los agentes que deciden sobre la producción ejercen trabajo de Planificación, Organización, Comando, y Control (POCC) que aumenta la producción pero brinda desutilidad. En los dos últimos modelos la clase gobernante ejerce trabajo POCC en la producción de bienes públicos y en la recaudación tributaria que lo financia, así como su consumo. El tercer modelo es extensión del modelo de competencia monopolística estándar que incluye el Gobierno y el trabajo POCC en la producción de bienes privados y públicos. Se muestra que la distribución del ingreso en términos de bienes privados depende de las decisiones tomadas por los gobernantes. Una distribución de ‘bienestar’ mostraría mayor desigualdad debido a las posibles desutilidades generadas por productos públicos que son males públicos para trabajadores pero bienes públicos para las clases altas. Se concibe este marco como primera aproximación de un proceso más complejo en que las clases inferiores tienen algún grado de poder contestatario (incluyendo elecciones, huelgas, manifestaciones, etc.) Pero esa mayor aproximación puede ser modelada de diferentes maneras y sólo modificaría la estructura de poder básica del modelo aproximado ‘en el margen’.
Y80|Master and Servant The birth of self-consciousness through recognition|"Hegel's famous Master and Slave dialectic which he develops in his work Phenomenology of Spirit describes in narrative form the development of self­ consciousness - the result of a struggle between two „beings"". The central point is recognition. Not only recognition of your own self-consciousness but also of the other. He presents this idealized in a situation where two beings meet and the development they have to undergo. The following article doesn't make a strict distinction between „inside the mind"" and „reality"" but uses Hegel's „pattern"" adapting it to working life and the relationship between workers and their leaders. This article will help tounderstand the social phenomenon of achieving self-conscious­ ness - not only necessary for the own wellbeing but an important factor for a good working team and company - and to make the lector reflect about asymmetrical recognition."
Y80|Risking Capitalism|The growing centrality of risk management in pro-market governance raises important questions regarding how risks are produced, and why? Who and what is included in, and excluded from, risk management, and why? And, what is the relationship between the rise of risk management and neoliberalism? Charting the relationship between risk, contemporary capitalism and its neoliberal modes of governance, Risking Capitalism, addresses these questions by examining - both analytically and empirically - diverse meanings and practices of risk management across a range of scales and themes, ranging from austerity to climate change to housing and debt. The authors investigate the relationship between shifts in contemporary capitalism and the ways in which neoliberal forms of risk management have emerged, been reproduced and normalized, and, transformed historically.
Y80|Scientometric trend analyses of publications on the history of psychology: Is psychology becoming an unhistorical science?|Abstract Examines scientometrically the trends in and the recent situation of research on and the teaching of the history of psychology in the German-speaking countries and compares the findings with the situation in other countries (mainly the United States) by means of the psychology databases PSYNDEX and PsycINFO. Declines of publications on the history of psychology are described scientometrically for both research communities since the 1990s. Some impulses are suggested for the future of research on and the teaching of the history of psychology. These include (1) the necessity and significance of an intensified use of quantitative, unobtrusive scientometric methods in historiography in times of digital “big data”, (2) the necessity and possibilities to integrate qualitative and quantitative methodologies in historical research and teaching, (3) the reasonableness of interdisciplinary cooperation of specialist historians, scientometricians, and psychologists, (4) the meaningfulness and necessity to explore, investigate, and teach more intensively the past and the problem history of psychology as well as the understanding of the subject matter of psychology in its historical development in cultural contexts. The outlook on the future of such a more up-to-date research on and teaching of the history of psychology is—with some caution—positive.
Y80|The lack of a European public sphere in the debate on the European sovereign debt crisis|The present article examines the coverage of the European actors in the Greek national debt crisis in the German daily newspapers 'Die Welt', 'Bild', 'Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung', 'Süddeutsche Zeitung' and 'Die Tageszeitung', as well as on the online platform 'Spiegel Online'. The aim is to capture the extent to which the national German media are Europeanized within the context of coverage of the Greek national debt crisis. The study's results show that it is not really possible to speak of a Europeanized national public sphere in Germany as far as the coverage of the Greek national debt crisis is concerned. In the German media, the European debate was portrayed as a bi-national conflict between the German and Greek governments.
Y80|A European public sphere in coverage of the Greek sovereign debt crisis in the news programmes of ARD and ZDF|"The present study examines news reporting during the Greek national debt crisis in the German television news programmes ""Tagesschau"" and ""heute"" and in the special broadcasts ""Brennpunkt"" on ARD and ""ZDF spezial"" on ZDF. The aim is to capture the extent to which the national German media are Europeanized within the context of coverage of the Greek national debt crisis, based on the representation of European actors and events. The study's results show that it is not really possible to speak of a Europeanized national public sphere in Germany as far as the coverage of the Greek national debt crisis is concerned."
Y80|List of Online Reports|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|List of Online Reports|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|List of Online Reports|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|List of Online Reports|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|List of Online Reports|No abstract is available for this item.
Y80|(De-)zentrale Energiewende und soziale Konflikte: regionale Konflikte um die Vertretung des Gemeinwohls|While the „Energiewende“ is a national and moreover global topic, the actual increasing conflicts are taking place at the local level. But who claims to represent the common good? Which impact do protests concerning the „Energiewende“ have on the local social structure? In our text we discuss these questions based on two case studies on conflicts about the construction of new overhead power cables and wind farms. We focus on the cleavage between common good and particular interests. Furthermore we analyze certain regional cleavages. We integrate the perspectives of all actors involved in these conflicts, such as local politicians and authorities, companies, protest groups, as well as those affected citizens who decided not to join the protests. We show that the conflicts are not just dealing with their specific issues but that there are deeper regional conflicts concerning the question who is legitimated to represent the common good. Obwohl die Energiewende als gesellschaftlicher Konsens gilt, nehmen lokale Proteste gegen Energiewendeprojekte zu. Doch welche Auswirkungen haben diese Proteste auf das soziale Gefüge in den Regionen? Wer beansprucht in diesen lokalen Konflikten, das Gemeinwohl zu vertreten? Diese Fragen werden im vorliegenden Artikel empirisch auf der Grundlage von zwei Fallstudien zu den Themenbereichen Stromtrassenbau und Windenergie diskutiert. Vor allem wird auf die Konfliktlinie der Allgemeinwohlvertretung sowie auf regionale Konfliktlinien eingegangen. Dabei werden die Sichtweisen aller beteiligten Akteure sowie der betroffenen, aber nicht aktiven Bevölkerung berücksichtigt. Es wird gezeigt, dass es in den Konflikten um mehr geht als um das spezifische Projekt, das verhindert werden soll. Vielmehr wird, eingebunden in lokale Konfliktlinien, der Vertretungsanspruch des Gemeinwohls verhandelt.
Y80|La terciarización en Chile. Desigualdad cultural y estructura ocupacional|La terciarización, o transición hacia economías de servicios con un creciente protagonismo de las ocupaciones no manuales, ha sido destacada como un fenómeno central de las sociedades contemporáneas. Frente al supuesto hundimiento numérico y político de los sectores obreros tradicionales, la clase media ha aparecido como la clase social protagónica de las últimas décadas. Vinculada a esta comprensión de la evolución de la sociedad, se ha manifestado un creciente interés por formas de diferenciación social distintas a la ocupacional de las sociedades industriales, entre ellas la cultural. En este trabajo se reconstruye brevemente este debate, y se muestra que si bien pudiera existir un crecimiento de ocupaciones no manuales, y con ello podría pensarse que habría un progresivo avance hacia una sociedad de clase media, hay importantes hallazgos que dificultan simplemente aceptar la afirmación de que Chile se ha convertido en tal tipo de sociedad mesocrática.
Y80|Tertiarization in Chile: cultural inequality and occupational structure|Tertiarization, or the shift to service economies with an increasing prevalence of non-manual occupations, has been identified as a central phenomenon in contemporary societies. With the purported numerical and political decline of traditional working-class sectors, the middle class has come to be seen in recent decades as the dominant one. This understanding of the way society has evolved has gone along with a growing interest in forms of social differentiation other than the occupational one of industrial societies, including cultural differentiation. This paper briefly reconstructs the debate and shows that while there may have been growth in non-manual occupations, prompting the notion of a progressive shift towards a middle-class society, some important findings make it difficult simply to accept the claim that Chile has become this kind of mesocratic society.
Y80|Public Relations Campaign in the Internet Era|The study is based on the development of the public relationsâ€™ campaign from 2000 to 2016 and how they influenced the public. For this research it was used the meta-analytical method. In 2000 the era of Internet has been started, but wasnâ€™t at the same level how it is today. People from the field of Communication and Public Relation together with the company and its clients begun to learn how to use the Internet in order to improve the strategy of the public relationsâ€™ campaign. A major influence given by the power of the Internet causes the launches of the social media: Facebook, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Instagram, Google+, Twitter and more. In Romania, Public Relations are representing a new field on the market; they have started to grow since the fall of the communism in 1989. In our days, more and more companies know the importance of the public relations and they try to discover new strategies to develop their image through public relations campaign. Time is passing and our society is changing and so are the public relations. If in the past year, the consumers were simply impressed by what they saw, nowadays people want more from public relations. They have access to the information through the Internet and are very suspicious about every product, so the people who are working in the public relations must be flexible and open minded to what is new. Itâ€™s a continuous learning.
Y80|The Relation between Mass-Media and Youth: Influences and Effects|This paper aims to point out how and in what manner is the young generation influenced by the television nowadays â€“ one that changed its complexity in a spectacular way throughout the years. The methodology we used, was based on an opinion survey, in which teenagers aged 15 to 18 participated. The main topics we addressed, regarding the young generation were: the access to mass-media, ways of spending leisure time, T.V. viewing preferences, motivations and personal satisfactions, associated with certain television programs and exposure to shows with negative potential. The objective of this article and its research was to set the preferences of the younger generation for certain television programs, and also to establish the level in which they change their behavior. Along with the central purpose, we also analyzed a series of secondary objectives, with a lower importance, but whose achievement sustains the basic ideas of the survey. The followed targets were the following: a) the frequency with which teenagers watch T.V. shows, the number of hours spent daily in front of the television and the days in which they watch it for longer periods of time; b) knowing their leisure time activities and establish the place mass-media occupied in this hierarchy.
Y80|The Libraries in the Byzantine Empire (330-1453)|This paper has as objective presenting main types of libraries who existed during the Byzantine Empire. The five types of existent libraries â€“ imperial, patriarchal, monastic, private and universitary, had a complex evolution during the history of Byzance. The beginning of those libraries is represented by the inauguration of the new imperial capital, by emperor Constantine the Great (306-337) in 330. The new imperial capital, Constantinople city, had several buildings which were inaugurated by Emperor Constantine including two libraries: the imperial one and the patriarchal one. Subsequently, have appeared over the centuries, and other libraries such as monastic, private or academic. Although there is no historical evidences proving the existence of a university library in the Byzantine Empire, however this it is not excluded. Over time all of these types of libraries have suffered changes and have experienced periods of flowering and decay, until their abolition final, once with the fall of the Byzantine Empire to the Ottomans in 1453. Since the study is not intended to be exhaustive I will deal this issue only from the historical point of view to make an overview of the Byzantine libraries and their role in the cultural evolution of Byzantium.An interesting thing is that the scientists and the byzantine scholars frequented the libraries in the Byzantine Empire, moreover some of them, such as Patriarch Photios the Great, had possessed impressive libraries, enviable even by the Byzantine emperors.
Y80|Cultural Journalist Eminescu and the Theatre from Bucharest|Eminescian cultural journalism means to dedicate several articles to literature, language, folklore, theater, religion, education and culture. In this paper, I pointed out that, of the 20 items about theater, 11 are dramatic chronics and 9 are theatrical dissertations. Like inter-war Camil Petrescu, the journalist Eminescu exceeded in the 8th and 9th decades of the nineteenth century and reviewed the status on all facets of this art of Thalia. From the hottest actors, performers game, fame authors, director role - intrinsic problems - from economic and sociological literature, such as salaries, the attitude of theatrical heads (anagers) public empathy. Success depends not only on the performance on stage or the sounds of the playwright - among those approached by the journalist: Sophocles, Hugo, Scribe, G. Sand, Shakespeare, Gogol; the great interpreters of the time, Millo, Eufrosinia Popescu, Petre Velescu can have moments of apathy, which would seriously damage public success. So there may be less visible factors in scenic representation of a dramatic work. Polyphonic journalist by vocation, Eminescu sensed the thorny issues in theater and objectivity made him take matters into his own hands, regardless of the consequences. Criticism in socio-political area was manifested in the theater area, the targets being artists, designers, directors... The dramatic analyst never spared anyone, not even the president of the Theatre Committee, Ion Ghica. Disavowed demanding cultural journalist, the columnist impugned order and stunned the cultural world of the time with the vastness of his knowledge in comedy, tragedy, drama. Eminescu had sufficient documentation about French, German, and even American theater! He was intrigued that we still hadnâ€™t had a national repertoire - I flaw unsolved by Kogalniceanu's and Alecsandriâ€™s forty-eighters. Moreover, sarcastic theatric commentator every now and then showed by a kind of tabula rasa that very few actors would be credited as a professional in his opinion: Alecsandri, Hasdeu, Deparateanu. He omitted himself, supreme proof of modesty. Eminescian theatrical publicity catches the eye with the deep views, by drilling haze layers of text, and by alert, concise and elastic phrasing, not once connotative, aphoristic. There is even a study where Eminescu can afford a theatrical bet. In general, he remains a vigilant theater analyst, perhaps the most active of his period, being a forerunner to Nicolae Filimon.
Y80|Propaganda as a Form of Manipulation|"The article aims to define the term ""propaganda"", its external features, techniques and methods of conveying the message. According to the specialist Malcolm X, ""the media's the most powerful entity on Earth. They have the power to make the innocent guilty and to make the guilty innocent, and that's power. Because they control the minds of the masses."""
Y80|Analysis of Social Self Efficacy and Emotional Intelligence in University Students|The purpose of this study was to investigate the self efficacy and emotional intelligence levels of university students. The participants were 534 (382 females and 152 males) university students. Data were collected using the Bar-On Emotional Intelligence Scale (adapted by Acar, 2001) and the Self-Efficacy Scale (adapted by PalancÄ±, 2004). It was found that there was a positive relationship between social self-efficacy and personal awareness, interpersonal relations, stress management, general mood and adaptability scores. It was also found that personal awareness, interpersonal relations and general mood explain social self-efficacy.
Y80|On A New Version Of The National Security Strategy Of The Russian Federation|The new National Security Strategy preserved the pattern and logical shortcomings of the previous one. The new strategy was also published amid a dramatic economic slump and that immediately threw into question a number of its provisions. Lack of foundation in terms of the Strategy of Social and Economic Development of the country and existence of non-transparent procedure for control over implementation of the previous version of the National Security Strategy create substantial risks of a failure of the new version.
Y80|The New Government Armaments Program Is Taking Shape|After the July and September meetings of the Military-Industrial Commission of the Russian Federation, the RF Government continued its search for a compromise concerning the ceiling for budget funding to be allocated to the next government armaments program for 2018–2025; however, the target suggested by the ﬁnancial-economic bloc had already been planned in the draft federal budget for the period 2017–2019. The new armaments program must be submitted for the RF President’s approval by July 1, 2017.
Y80|The Defense Industry Failed To Underpin The National Economy|The defense industry’s 2015 preliminary performance results have been published. Early fulﬁllment of the state armament program’s intermediate target index shows that military expenditures are of an excessive nature. Agencies’ reporting data are controversial and need be speciﬁed. Russia’s leaders declared about the need of diversiﬁcation and conversion of the defense industry.
Y80|The Specifics Of The New State Program Of Development Of The Military-Industrial Complex|Target indicators of the Military-Industrial Complex Development, a state program approved in May 2016 can hardly be regarded to be in compliance with declared objectives of the country’s leadership and the Military-Industrial Commission in terms of diversification and defense conversion. The program’s main objective is quantitative growth and not development targets. The total number of state programs for the military-industrial complex (MIC) is excessive and something is to be done about it to improve the situation.
Y80|Attitudes towards Tax Evasion in Turkey and Australia: A Comparative Study|The authors conducted a survey of 502 Turkish and Australian undergraduate and graduate business and economic students to determine their views regarding the ethics of tax evasion. These two groups were selected on the premise that their views represented the perceptions of two very different cultures, which has not been investigated in previous studies. The survey instrument required students to indicate their level of agreeableness to 18 general statements representing various scenarios in the socio-economic environment. The statements in the survey reflected the three main viewpoints regarding the ethics of tax evasion which have emerged from the literature to date. The results of the study show that although Turkish scores are significantly different from the Australian scores, both Turkish and Australian respondents believe that tax evasion can be ethically justifiable in certain situations, although some arguments are stronger than others.
Y80|Gender, Fitness Doping and the Genetic Max. The Ambivalent Construction of Muscular Masculinities in an Online Community|This article is based on written accounts posted on an online forum called Flashback. The purpose of the study was to explore how participants in this community negotiated the meanings of fitness doping and how such negotiations could be understood in terms of masculinity. The findings indicate that the Internet community studied in this article can be read as an example of a transformational process in which ordinary rules are questioned and partly put out of play. In the world of the bodybuilder, the marginal masculinity is, in certain senses, dominant. On the one hand, achieving a muscular and well-trained body is regarded as a core aspect of manhood within the community. Marginal masculinity is thus momentarily transformed into dominant and hegemonic masculinity. On the other hand, however, the findings also indicate that a drug-using, muscular masculinity is constructed in negotiation with other central masculine ideals, such as the employable man and the responsible father. Found within the community is a complex and dynamic interplay between intersecting discourses of manhood.
Y80|Decreasing Obesity and Obesity Stigma: Socio-Demographic Differences in Beliefs about Causes of and Responsibility for Obesity|Obesity is a stigmatized condition, and research has shown that obesity stigma varies based on the perceived cause of obesity. It is important that public health professionals develop policy and campaigns that resonate with specific populations while avoiding an increase in harmful stigma. This study identifies socio-demographic differences in causal attributions of obesity and beliefs about responsibility for obesity. Using data from a survey of 923 people in the United States conducted by ABC New/Time Magazine, attributions of cause and responsibility are analyzed using Ordinary Least Squares regression. Beliefs about cause and responsibility fall on a continuum from primarily individual cause and personal responsibility to primarily societal cause and social responsibility. In general, women and minority racial groups are found to be more likely to identify causes over which individuals have little control and place responsibility on societal factors than men and Whites. People in higher income categories are found to be more likely to identify individual responsibility for obesity. Findings from this study can be used to shape information and public health policy to address obesity in ways that will not exacerbate obesity stigma as well as to create programs that will be customized for specific communities based on their existing beliefs.
Y80|Crisis Communication Competence in Co-Producing Safety with Citizen Groups|The aim of this article is to explore interpersonal communication competence needed by crisis communication and management experts when co-operating with citizen groups in response to emergencies. Moreover, the purpose is to understand how response organizations can further develop this crisis communication competence and so contribute to the functioning of response networks. The research task is approached qualitatively by eliciting crisis communication and management experts’ ( n = 33) perceptions of the interpersonal communication competence response organizations needs when co-operating with citizen groups. The data were gathered via an international online questionnaire using a method referred to as “thematic writing” and consist of written responses to open-ended questions on what constitutes the core of crisis communication competence and what aspects of it need more attention. The research findings indicate that co-producing safety with citizen groups demands crisis communication competence related to message production, message reception, and interaction between experts and citizen groups. In addition, the findings clarify what areas of crisis communication competence need to be further developed to facilitate co-operation between experts and citizen groups. However, the authors suggest that crisis communication competence should not be seen solely as a characteristic of individual crisis communicators but approached as a networked and co-created area of competence.
Y80|American Long-Distance Locomobility and the Spaces of Actor-Network Theory|Much of the discourse surrounding national intercity passenger rail service in the United States revolves around why it has lagged so far behind European and Asian counterparts. However, a more interesting question might be why it has survived despite competition from faster, more nimble transport modes, discriminatory public policy, and the ascension of neoliberal discourse hostile to public endeavor. This paper uses the concept of durability in actor-network theory to offer some insights into how the system has achieved a remarkable but problematic stability, and how that durability relates to an imagined role for national intercity passenger rail in a future of increasingly constrained material resources. This paper also demonstrates the application of actor-network theory (ANT) in a way that can serve as a useful introduction to and template for the use of that methodology.
Y80|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Social Sciences in 2015|The editors of Social Sciences would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2015. [...]
Y80|From Athletes to Astrophysicists: Gender Differences in Patterns and Predictors of Career Aspirations in Pre-Adolescence|This paper adds to research on girls’ growing educational advantage by examining gender differences in career paths. Using baseline data from an intervention study (TRY-IT!) targeting 265 sixth-graders in Title I schools, our research traces adolescent career aspirations by gender, race and class. Additionally, we investigate whether girls and boys exhibit differential sensitivity to environmental risk and protective factors that shape career and educational aspirations. We find that the career choices of boys vary more widely by social context, including socioeconomic status, race, and academic resources. Specifically, among youth with fewer social and academic advantages, girls aspire to more practical careers and careers which require higher levels of educational attainment relative to boys. The findings reveal how sources of inequality such as race and class shape gendered aspirations and complicate gender inequality. We reason that boys’ choices are more volatile and socially contingent because of the emphasis on high-status careers as a signifier of masculinity.
Y80|Voluntary Turnover: A Means of Reducing Perceived Job Insecurity? A Propensity Score Matching Procedure Applied on Swiss Data|The investigation of job insecurity has been a growing field of research. However, little is known about the strategies employees adopt to reduce job insecurity. Former research has shown that employees who perceive high job insecurity tend to engage in voluntary turnover. Yet, we do not know whether such a strategy is successful in reducing perceived job insecurity. Based on the Swiss Household Panel (SHP), a general population survey in Switzerland, a propensity score matching procedure is applied to investigate whether voluntary turnover successfully reduces feelings of job insecurity for employees who previously perceived an above-average level of job insecurity. Assuming that individual and family conditions are important factors explaining the success of this strategy it is distinguished between men and women with high, equally shared, or low financial responsibilities and of different age and educational groups. The results show that voluntary turnover indeed reduces perceived job insecurity. Whereas the individual factors do not moderate this relationship, the level of financial responsibilities does: employees who equally share financial responsibilities with their partners are most successful in reducing perceived job insecurity through voluntary turnover. The use of a propensity score matching procedure has proven fruitful as the bias caused by differing pre-turnover characteristics can be reduced considerably.
Y80|The Left- and Right-Wing Political Power Design: The Dilemma of Welfare Policy with Low-Income Relief|Findings from this experiment contributed novel insights into the theoretical field of welfare policy, addressing fundamental questions about wealth redistribution rules and norms. The expenses of the redistribution pertaining to basic goods, as well as those associated with public (non-basic) but vital goods, are separately estimated by transforming the expenses into functions of the poverty line. The findings reveal that, along the poverty line that treats all citizens equally, the politicians representing opposing ideologies decide how the redistribution of basic and vital goods should be financed. Politicians should come to an agreement, subject to an approval of their decisions by voters-citizens. However, in the absence of such approval, politicians have no alternative but to continue the negotiations. Based on this premise, we concluded that political decisions with an elevated poverty line as a parameter would give rise to inverse working incentives of benefits claimants. This may result in unbalanced books, due to the expenditure on the delivery of basic and non-basic goods to their respective destinations. By keeping the books in balance, we postulate that one half of median income μ, in accord with Fuchs point, may be used in the form of poverty line ½μ for just and fair wealth redistribution in resolving the ideological controversies between left- and right-wing politicians. Through the income exception rule equal to ½μ, as a result of a relief payments simulation, the wealth redistribution system, known since 1962 from as Friedman’s Negative Income Tax (NIT), diminished the Gini coefficient.
Y80|Transnationalism: A Vehicle for Settlement and Incorporation of Muslim Iraqi Turkoman Forced Migrants in Sydney|Based on a qualitative study of eight “less visible” Muslim Iraqi Turkoman immigrants in a multicultural Sydney, this article highlights the dynamic nature of immigrant identity that is constructed of multiple ethno-communal identities. This article explores the significance of transnational activities, due to readily available communication technologies, and how this allows Muslim Iraqi Turkoman immigrants not only to hold multiple identities, but also move and mix in societies with plural ethno-religious communities, such as Sydney. Through a transnational lens and the use of qualitative study, this article looks at how Muslim Iraqi Turkoman forced migrants have engaged in identity reproduction and settlement in Sydney, and how their experiences compare with the utopic dream of a “multicultural Australia”. The key findings in this article show that: firstly, “less visible” Muslim Iraqi Turkoman ethnic minority usually finds it difficult to self-define their identity, and often uses nation states as point of reference; secondly, Islamophobic attacks affect feelings of belongingness to the larger Australian society; thirdly, maintaining home culture promotes feelings of belongingness to Australia.
Y80|Hybridity: A Theory of Agency in Early Childhood Governance|Contemporary social science research concerning governance tends to take an institutional perspective that privileges structural analysis. The resulting body of literature has an emphasis on classification, typologies and regimes. This approach has been criticized on the basis that it neglects the role of agency and context when research concerns complex and heterogeneous community governance cases. An emerging literature on hybridity in social services aims to address the limitations of structural accounts by acknowledging that diverse logics, ideas, and norms influence the way community based social services resist or adapt in turbulent policy environments. This article considers the strengths and limitations of hybridity in development of a research framework incorporating structure, agency and ideas. The relevance of hybridity theory for the Kids in Communities study—an Australian research project investigating neighborhood influences on child development across multiple case study sites—is evaluated.
Y80|Integrated Social Housing and Health Care for Homeless and Marginally-Housed Individuals: A Study of the Housing and Homelessness Steering Committee in Ontario, Canada|Homelessness is a complex social issue that requires a coordinated systems approach. In recent years, Canada has seen an emergence of integrated care, the joining of health care and social care, to address the needs of homeless persons. This article documents the findings of open-ended interviews with eleven members of the central east Ontario Housing and Homelessness Framework Steering Committee, comprised of service managers and the Local Health Integration Network. As the system planners for social housing and health care, respectively, members of the group work together to align system approaches for homeless persons. Research by this group identified three challenges of collaborating—their different histories and legislation, varied accountability structures, and differing roles and responsibilities within the central east region of Ontario. The study findings indicate that developing a joint document to guide the work was a process through which members began to work through these differences.
Y80|Political Experience and the Success of Female Gubernatorial Candidates|This research examines the effect that political experience has on the success of female gubernatorial candidates by analyzing the female vs. male gubernatorial elections from 1976–2014. The study questions whether prior statewide political office experience is advantageous for female candidates and is this consistent across party lines. This research builds on the political pipeline theory, which suggests that the shortage of women holding higher level political office, such as governor, is due to the lack of qualified and motivated women running for political office. We argue that women who hold lower level statewide office develop the necessary experience and name recognition that provides them with the qualifications and motivation, both within themselves and from other sources such as political parties, to run for and win the office of governor. Our findings suggest that statewide office experience is important for the success of Democratic women gubernatorial candidates but not for Republican women gubernatorial candidates.
Y80|The Fragility of Gender Equality Policies in Spain|Within the last decade, Spain has become a model in legislative policies for gender equality at the international level. However, the economic crisis has led to a growth in inequality, which has revealed the weaknesses of the adopted instruments. Despite the large amount of legislation in this area, the social reality has not changed at all, even experiencing a setback over the past few years. This situation was exposed in our country by a report issued in 2015 by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). This report showed the negative effects of the economic crisis and austerity policies on women, even in a context necessitating increased efforts towards women’s rights. Therefore, it is imperative that the concept of gender mainstreaming and the adoption of instruments of “hard law” be revisited. The goal should be to achieve gender justice based on three elements—distribution, identity, and representation—and a real parity democracy.
Y80|Masculinities in Cyberspace: An Analysis of Portrayals of Manhood in Men’s Rights Activist Websites|A growth in cultural ideologies concerned with men and masculinities in contemporary American society has recently emerged. Men’s rights activist (MRA) groups embody a movement emphasizing the crisis of masculinity. Despite men’s privileged societal status, MRAs seek to establish resources for men to utilize in elevating their perceived subordinated position in society in relation to women and social minorities. Little research has systematically investigated MRAs on the Internet, which is rapidly becoming a primary source of information and social connectedness for people. Through a content analysis of the 12 most prominent MRA websites, we explore the various strategies used by contemporary men’s groups designed to provide support for men in their pursuit of social legitimacy and power. Two primary categories of MRAs with distinctive ideological strategies emerged from this analysis: Cyber Lads in Search of Masculinity and Virtual Victims in Search of Equality . Though both groups promoted men’s entitlement to social power, Cyber Lads utilized themes of explicit aggression towards and devaluation of women, while Virtual Victims adopted political and social movement rhetoric to address men’s issues. The implications of these websites are discussed in terms of gender equality and their potential effects on individual men and women.
Y80|Making Communication Strategy Choices in a Fast Evolving Crisis Situation—Results from a Table-Top Discussion on an Anthrax Scenario|This paper aims at clarifying a timely topic of how communication strategy choices are made in evolving, complex crises, such as those caused by terrorism involving chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) agents. This is done by examining data gathered from a table-top discussion among crisis communication experts, focusing on a scenario of an anthrax attack and analysed qualitatively. The communication experts followed the evolving crisis situation by gathering inputs from various actors in the crisis management network, thereby creating situational understanding, and interpreted these inputs for decision-making on communication strategies. The underlying process of coping with complexity in evolving CBRN terrorism crises can be described as a continuous, dynamic process that can best be explained with a combination of traditional and more modern crisis communication approaches. Strategy-making in crisis situations by communication experts is still largely a black box. In this study, a novel approach of decomposing strategy-making by observing a table-top discussion is chosen to clarify the process. By identifying the core elements involved, a more detailed picture of communication strategy-making is created, thus promoting preparedness and professional resilience in the field.
Y80|Oil in Syria between Terrorism and Dictatorship|The sale of oil and gas is one of the most important components of the Syrian economy. Unfortunately, since the discovery of these resources, the Syrian people have not benefited from the revenues earned. This study deals with the development of oil and gas production and the geographical distribution of fields, as well as production control, deterioration of production, refining and selling mechanisms, and the resulting health and environmental impacts following Islamic State’s (IS) control of the majority of oilfields in Syria. Since summer 2015, IS controls 80% of the fields with a production of 65,000 barrels per day (b/d); the Assad regime controls 8% of fields with 10,000 b/d; and Kurdish forces dominate the remaining 12% with 25,000 b/d. IS depends on oil as a major source of financing for its military and civilian activities, and has also managed to set up an extensive network of middlemen in neighbouring territories and countries, with the aim of trading crude oil for cash and other resources. IS produces and exports within its areas of control and sells part of the oil to the Assad regime, and another portion to the liberated areas, as well as to Iraq and Turkey.
Y80|Veiled Politics: Muslim Women’s Visibility and Their Use in European Countries’ Political Life|One of the many disastrous consequences of the tragic events of 9/11 is the war waged by the neocolonialists in order to “liberate” Muslim women. This gender-based war stands on a series of pillars, such as the presumption that Western civilization offers women a great deal of privileges, while Muslim culture gives none. Therefore, it would be logical to suppose that, because of the many opportunities the West grants to Muslim women who reside there, the latter may have an active role in the local political process. However, Muslim women have scarce visibility in European political life, and their presence is sometimes merely instrumental to some party: in most cases, women are coopted because they are a good sample of “secular Muslims” ( i.e. , they do not wear the hijab , i.e. , the veil and a modest attire); in others, they are appointed because they are veiled and can therefore become a good vehicle in order to win the support both of the Muslim community and of its sympathizers. In this paper, I will analyze some crucial aspects of Muslim women’s formal political participation in some European countries; in addition, I will focus on the Italian case with the help of a series of interviews with Muslim women who play an active role in local political councils. The study shows how in European politics, Muslim women can become a commodity even when they stand out as rising political individuals; but also how they fight to gain visibility and public recognition, in spite of the tense situation and of the rampant Islamophobia.
Y80|U.S. Volunteering in the Aftermath of the Great Recession: Were African Americans a Significant Factor?|The Great Recession weakened U.S. families’ abilities to make charitable gifts. Although African Americans are generally especially hard hit by these types of economic crises, they have a long and distinctive history of volunteerism and mutual assistance. Consequently, the purpose of this study is to examine African American volunteering in nonprofit organizations in the aftermath of the 2008–2009 recession. Specifically, we examined race as well as other factors with the potential to influence volunteering in four categories of organizations: poverty organizations, senior service agencies, social action groups, and religious affiliated organizations. Using the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) data, this secondary analysis produced significant findings regarding volunteerism among African Americans in these community-based organizations.
Y80|Effectiveness of Recycling Promotion and Education Initiatives among First-Generation Ethnic Minorities in Ontario, Canada|This study examines how first-generation ethnic minorities respond to different types of recycling promotion and education campaigns (P&E) used by municipalities in Ontario, Canada. A total of eight focus group sessions were conducted over an eight-week period to gauge participant attitudes and responses towards print (newspaper and signs) and electronic (websites) P&E messaging. Participants were asked to comment on message “recognition”, “clarity”, “the ability to increase recycling awareness” and “the ability to affect changes in recycling behavior”. Results from the focus group sessions suggest that none of the P&E mediums tested were able to increase recycling awareness or change recycling behavior in any meaningful way. First-generation ethnic minorities struggle with recognizing the central theme and purpose of P&E advertisements. Respondents also found existing campaigns excessively complex and confusing, and were not familiar with many of the terms and symbols used in existing P&E messaging. Other findings suggest that ethnic minorities are skeptical and distrustful of the municipalities’ intentions with respect to what they do with the waste after it is collected. The findings from this study lead to the recommendation that municipalities rethink and redesign recycling promotion and education initiatives to better engage minority communities.
Y80|The Effects of Religion on Enduring Marriages|This article adds to recent literature in the study of religion and marriage by examining older couples’ use of religion as a cultural repertoire in enduring marriages. The study includes qualitative analysis of in-depth interviews with 43 married, Christian couples. Couples reported four predominant social contexts that gave sacred meanings to their marriage: prayer, worship services and sermons, first-rite rituals and communion. These social contexts magnify sacred meanings within religious cultural repertoires by enhancing older couples’ perceptions of their marriages as sacred through formal and public recognition of their marriage longevity, lauding their marriage longevity as a blessing from God to be emulated, promoting religious meanings of familism and giving positive marriage outcomes sacred meanings. Negative effects of religion on marriage outcomes occurred among older couples when lived experiences of religion conflicted with their cultural expectations for enduring marriages.
Y80|Validity and Reliability of the Problem Solving Inventory (PSI) in a Nationwide Sample of Greek Educators|The Problem Solving Inventory (PSI) is designed to measure adults’ perceptions of problem-solving ability. The presented study aimed to translate it and assess its reliability and validity in a nationwide sample of 3668 Greek educators. In order to evaluate internal consistency reliability, Cronbach’s alpha coefficient was used. The scale’s construct validity was examined by a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and by investigating its correlation with the Internality, Powerful others and Chance Multidimensional Locus of Control Scale (IPC LOC Scale), the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES) and demographic information. Internal consistency reliability was satisfactory with Cronbach’s alphas ranging from 0.79 to 0.91 for all PSI scales. CFA confirmed that the bi-level model fitted the data well. The root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), the comparative fit index (CFI) and the goodness of fit index (GFI) values were 0.030, 0.97 and 0.96, respectively, further confirming the bi-level model and the three-factors construct of the PSI. Intercorrelations and correlation coefficients between the PSI, the IPC LOC Scale and the RSES were significant. Age, sex, and working experience differences were found. In conclusion, the Greek version of the PSI was found to have satisfactory psychometric properties and therefore, it can be used to evaluate Greek teachers’ perceptions of their problem-solving skills.
Y80|The Impact of Sanctions and Neo-Liberalism on Women’s Organising in Iran|As in the case of many contemporary movements, Iranian women’s activism is connected into local, international and transnational politics. However, Iranian women’s views of transnational solidarity and perceptions of foreign support for women’s rights in Iran are complicated by the experience of Western foreign policy of the last three decades. This is perceived to have claimed to support women’s rights and liberalism against what is often described as a “conservative theocratic state” but has, in some ways, made it more difficult for women to organise “on the ground” and strengthened the hand of conservative forces both materially and ideologically. Two facets of Western foreign policy towards Iran will be discussed and analysed in relation to their impact on women; firstly, this article will investigate the impact of sanctions and the international isolation of the country since 1979 on women’s organisations. Secondly, it will analyse neo-liberalism and the changing nature of the Iranian state, as well as political elites. Utilising interviews with Iranian women activists conducted in 2009, in addition to April 2015, the article will discuss views of transnational solidarity and the diverse political strategies utilised by women activists and organisations in Iran today.
Y80|Do Robots Need to Be Stereotyped? Technical Characteristics as a Moderator of Gender Stereotyping|As suggested by previous results, whether, when designing robots, we should make use of social stereotypes and thus perpetuate them is question of present concern. The aim of this study was the identification of the specific conditions under which people’s judgments of robots were no longer guided by stereotypes. The study participants were 121 individuals between 18 and 69 years of age. We used an experimental design and manipulated the gender and strength of robots, and we measured the perception of how a robot could be used in automotive mechanics for light and heavy tasks. Results show that the technical characteristics of robots helped to anchor people’s judgments on robots’ intrinsic characteristics rather than on stereotypical indicators. Thus, stereotype perpetuation does not seem to be the sole option when designing robots.
Y80|Converging Urban Agendas: Toward Healthy and Sustainable Communities|In light of recent developments such as the COP21 Paris climate agreement, the UN adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, and the Habitat III Conference, there is increasing recognition of the role of human settlements as key components of both global challenges and global solutions. “Urban sustainability” under various names has matured over the last three decades not only in planning and related fields, but also in wider professional and popular discourse. In this paper we trace a historical overview of urban sustainability theory and practice, and explain why urban sustainability planning and development currently face limited and inconsistent application. We show that this lack of public uptake is due in part to monitoring, assessment, and decision-support frameworks and tools that do not engage citizens and their governments in a shared “strong sustainability” analysis and/or vision. We argue that urban sustainability today clearly needs to embrace equity, inclusion, and other social considerations; contribute to constructive societal mobilisation and compelling policy-making; advocate for development as a better alternative to growth; encourage the integration of human and environmental health interests; and encompass triple-bottom-line-inspired outcomes. Focusing on community capital productivity and regeneration may be the key to advancing healthy and sustainable communities.
Y80|Method in the Madness: Hysteria and the Will to Power|At the very start of a chapter on hysteria in her book From Mastery to Analysis: Theories of Gender in Psychoanalytic Feminism , Patricia Elliot cites Nietzsche’s “truths are illusions of which one has forgotten that they are illusions”. This paper follows this connection between hysteria and the work of Nietzsche. This paper will highlight how a Lacanian interpretation of hysteria can elucidate Heidegger’s reading of Nietzsche’s Will to Power and how this interpretation of the Will to Power can better explain the value and importance of hysteria for psychoanalysis and philosophy. I will show that the hysteric’s discourse has a “higher value” than the master’s discourse because it meets Nietzsche’s definition of art, which aims at life’s enhancement rather than the master’s knowledge or truth which aims at the preservation of life. My work will explain how the hysteric’s discourse can transform the master’s discourse into the analyst’s discourse through the Will to Power. This is important, as this is the ultimate aim of psychoanalysis where “At the end of analysis the subject passes to the position of analyst”. This is the ultimate aim of psychoanalysis because “For Lacan, the Discourse of the Analyst is revolutionary because it articulates the truth of the (unconscious) subject”. Fundamentally, the objective of this article is to demonstrate that “hysteria is to be understood not as an ‘abnormal’ condition but as one possible manifestation of the subject’s uncanny relationship to itself”.
Y80|In Pursuit of Child and Family Well-Being: Initial Steps to Advocacy|Communities across the United States, in both urban and rural areas, are seeking ways to promote well-being for their citizens in sustainable ways. This paper provides a descriptive case study of one rural community that used an inquiry-based approach to ask, “How can we engage our citizens to improve child and family well-being in our community?” The group also wondered “What if Brookings had one place for families to access all family resources that support well-being?” “What if all families had a place where their needs were heard?” and “What if all resources for families looked at the well-being of children and families in a holistic way?” This paper describes the initial journey of a community of practice advocating on several different community levels, including the role of university students, the process of the community of practice formation, its growing connections to community agencies and its initial efforts to build calls to action through participatory research and grassroots community efforts. While conveying a linear narrative, the authors also maintain a focus on the organic processes of knowledge construction and the evolution of a community of practice. Data collection, using the Delphi approach, is underway to access initial ground-up definitions of well-being and to identify areas of focus.
Y80|Worksheet for Describing and Categorizing a Genocidal Event: A New Tool for Assembling More Objective Data and Classifying Events of Mass Killing|A new tool is presented for facilitating greater objectivity in the chaotic field of genocide studies: first, assembling the available factual data about any event of mass murder systematically; second, contextualizing each of our judgments of the nature of the crime as a choice being made by a given scholar or institution (e.g., a specific court), but not as “God’s word.” The Worksheet for Describing and Categorizing a Genocidal Event is believed to be innovative in several ways: (1) This model presents researchers with a methodology for developing systematic, extensive and objective information about many different aspects of an event of mass killing; (2) Emphasis is placed on identifying each researcher’s guiding concept of genocide; (3) The proposed methodology purposely postpones any effort at classification—including whether an event constitutes “genocide”—until after factual data have been assembled; (4) Categorization of an event is also to be understood as an act of judgment by each researcher, not as scientifically established truth; (5) It is also to be understood that classification in the language of social sciences is different than legal classifications that in turn also are to be understood as based on whatever specific code of law.
Y80|Population Growth, Migration, and Changes in the Racial Differential in Imprisonment in the United States, 1940–1980|The proportion of U.S. prison inmates who were black increased dramatically between 1940 and 2000. While about two-thirds of the increase occurred between 1940 and 1970, most recent research analyzes the period after 1970, focusing on explanations such as the war on drugs, law-and-order politics, discrimination, inequality, and racial threat. We analyze the growth in the racial difference in incarceration between 1940 and 1980, focusing on the role of demographic processes, particularly population growth, migration, and urbanization. We implement three analyses to assess the role of these demographic processes: (1) a simple accounting model that decomposes the national trend into population growth, changes in arrests, and changes in sentencing; (2) a model of state variation in incarceration that decomposes the racial difference in incarceration into population change, migration between states with different incarceration rates, and other processes; and (3) race-specific models of within-state variation in incarceration rates using state characteristics coupled with a decomposition of the role of changes in state characteristics.
Y80|Who Wants Income Inequality?: An Analysis of Public Choice under Income Comparison|This study investigates when individuals from advantaged and disadvantaged groups are in favor of reducing income inequality. Using a model that considers both an individual’s absolute income and relative income, I examine the conditions under which income equalization is supported by some members in the advantaged group and, more interestingly, opposed by part of the disadvantaged group. In equilibrium, the valuation towards relative income, the initial endowment the difference between the two groups and the amount of income transfer upon equalization have opposite effects on different groups’ likelihood of favoring equalization. To this end, I conduct a comparative statics analysis, and the results suggest that in order to incentivize more individuals to support inter-group income transfer, a policymaker’s optimal strategy substantially depends on how much the society values relative income.
Y80|Trans* + ing Classrooms: The Pedagogy of Refusal as Mediator for Learning|Gender and sexuality norms, conscribed under cis/heteropatriarchy, have established violent and unstable social and educational climates for the millennial generation of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, agender/asexual, gender creative, and questioning youth. While strides have been made to make schools more supportive and queer inclusive, schools still struggle to include lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender* + , intersex, agender/asexual, gender creative, queer and questioning (LGBT* + IAGCQQ)-positive curricula. While extensive studies must be done on behalf of all queer youth, this work specifically focuses on how to support classroom teachers to uptake and apply a pedagogy of refusal that attends to the most vulnerabilized population of queer youth to date, those that are trans* + . A pedagogy of refusal will be explored through an evolving theory of trans* + ness, then demonstrated through a framework for classroom application, followed by recommendations for change.
Y80|Misalignment of Career and Educational Aspirations in Middle School: Differences across Race, Ethnicity, and Socioeconomic Status|Misalignment of educational and career goals (i.e., educational aspirations expressed are inadequate for attaining one’s desired occupation) is associated with lower educational attainment and a lack of college readiness, and may contribute to persistent educational and employment disparities. Drawing on data from 249 sixth graders in low-income schools, this research examines misalignment between educational and career aspirations across racial and ethnic and socioeconomic groups. Findings indicate that students in low-income schools aspire to middle and upper middle class careers, but sometimes lack an understanding of the educational degrees required to achieve their goals. Latinos are significantly more likely than other groups to report misaligned aspirations, as are students in the free and reduced lunch program and those without a college-educated parent. Consequently, early gaps in misaligned career and educational goals for disadvantaged students may set them on a trajectory that perpetuates educational and occupational inequalities in this population. We discuss the programmatic implications of these findings in light of the elevated college and career planning needs of students traditionally underrepresented in higher education.
Y80|“I Collected Money, not a Bribe”: Strategic Ambiguity and the Dynamics of Corruption in Contemporary Nigeria|This article explores the language of corruption in Nigeria. It uses Eisenberg’s Strategic Ambiguity concept to examine the extent to which Nigerian legislators and those who occupy the executive arm of the government employ ambiguous languages and actions to execute and defend corrupt practices, and how this institutionalizes the culture of corruption in contemporary Nigeria. The article further explores how ambiguous light punishment, outright non-punishment, state pardon of corrupt elites and the reward of corrupt elites with sensitive government appointments engender corruption in Nigeria. The article argues that while the elites engage in diverse corrupt practices and employ ambiguous words to defend their acts, the judiciary appears to defend rather than punish them. The paper discusses the implications of these findings, concluding that the war against corruption in Nigeria may not be effective, because as those who appear to be fighting corruption are themselves corrupt, the frameworks with which corruption is fought are strategically manipulated by the elites.
Y80|Domestic Violence against Albanian Immigrant Women in Greece: Facing Patriarchy|Immigration is becoming an increasingly important policy concern in Europe and in many other nations. Importantly, there is an ever-growing number of women who migrate, many of whom are undocumented. Violence against immigrant women is nearly impossible to estimate. However, immigrant women who are abused face multiple barriers to seeking legal protection from the abuse as a result of their migration status, their positions within family and the host country. This paper examines the issues related to intimate partner violence within the Albanian immigrant community in Greece. It explores how the situation in Greek society and the labor market (such as social policies, xenophobic attitudes, job segregation and the prevailing economic crisis) changed the traditional gender roles and distribution of the power within Albanian families and increased intimate partner violence (IPV). The study found evidence of an increase in IPV in the aftermath of the economic crisis, which could be explained by the ideology of familial patriarchy. Battered immigrant women also face challenges in the Greek criminal justice system, which is also influenced by patriarchal values, when they are seeking relief and assistance in cases of interpersonal violence.
Y80|Safety on Passenger Ferries from Catering Staff’s Perspective|The majority of employees on passenger ferries consist of the catering staff: those who operate in restaurants, shops, and in the hotel on board. Research on this category is scant. The aim of this study is to investigate the catering staff’s experiences and perceptions of safety practice on board passenger ferries. The methods are semi-structured interviews and a qualitative content analysis of official documents and research articles. Results: Increased safety regulations and directives on an international and a national level have taken place after the major ferry disasters of late 1990s. Changes in the safety organization on the passenger ferries have resulted in more involvement of the catering crew in safety on board. Safety awareness and the way the catering staff think about safety have improved. The risk of terrorism has further reinforced safety awareness. A clear challenge for safety work on ferries is the reduction of catering crew. The transition to job flexibility for catering crew may constitute risk factors regarding safety and security.
Y80|Strategies for Combating Islamic State|The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) announced the formation of the “Islamic Caliphate” as an alternative to modern states, on 29 June 2014 (the first day of Ramadan). The ISIS vision shared by other global jihadist organizations such as al-Qaeda is an apocalyptic post-state. Many authors very quickly evolve from the idea of the potential threat to either the U.S. or its allies to a requisite necessity of strong military action by the U.S. to defeat ISIS. Something frequently absent in analyses of U.S. reactions to ISIS is the capabilities, responsibilities, and opinions and desires of neighboring Gulf countries. This paper will incorporate attitudes and opinions of Gulf countries to imply responsibilities to deal with ISIS prior to considering potential U.S. actions.
Y80|Engaging Citizen Participation—A Result of Trusting Governmental Institutions and Politicians in the Portuguese Democracy|Public participation is a mainstay of democracy. However, the ways in which it can be understood inevitably influence the achievement of the goals that preside over any public policy. Literature argues that the drawbacks of citizen participation are directly related to the level of trust in governmental institutions and in politicians. The present study was carried out on a sample of 250 individuals and aimed to (1) describe citizens’ opinions and trust in politicians and government institutions; and (2) demonstrate that healthy levels of citizen engagement in politics may be upheld as long as citizens trust their political institutions and leaders, through a case study of Portugal’s democratic system. The current study found no statistically significant association between political participation and the study participant’s perception that government representatives heard ( p = 0.769) or considered ( p = 0.810) their opinions. Similarities were found between the participants’ assessments of the quality of life brought about by the decisions of those in power and the levels of citizen participation around land planning and land management ( p = 0.011). Also, citizen assessments of life quality were influenced by their understanding of political decisions ( p = 0.014). Effective communication between citizens and politicians will allow both to better understand the aims of political policy. When citizens believe that politicians are honest, show moral leadership and demonstrate integrity, and that these values are upheld by public institutions, a common aspiration can be realized: improving the quality of life.
Y80|Piracy and the Politics of Social Media|Since the 1990s, the understanding of how and where politics are made has changed radically. Scholars such as Ulrich Beck and Maria Bakardjieva have discussed how political agency is enacted outside of conventional party organizations, and political struggles increasingly focus on single issues. Over the past two decades, this transformation of politics has become common knowledge, not only in academic research but also in the general political discourse. Recently, the proliferation of digital activism and the political use of social media are often understood to enforce these tendencies. This article analyzes the Pirate Party in relation to these theories, relying on almost 30 interviews with active Pirate Party members from different parts of the world. The Pirate Party was initially formed in 2006, focusing on copyright, piracy, and digital privacy. Over the years, it has developed into a more general democracy movement, with an interest in a wider range of issues. This article analyzes how the party’s initial focus on information politics and social media connects to a wider range of political issues and to other social movements, such as Arab Spring protests and Occupy Wall Street. Finally, it discusses how this challenges the understanding of information politics as a single issue agenda.
Y80|The Death of Democracy and the Forces of Power and Control: The Case of Europe|At the time of writing, the United Kingdom is grabbling with its decision to abandon its European Union membership. As the country is divided and hate incidents are increased by almost 50%, this think-piece presents a critical analysis of Europe’s missed opportunity for social justice. The paper presents evidence by analysing the civil and political rights jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights in order to explore the potential of what it calls the “human rights project” for a regional democracy. The paper shows that a key objective of the European Convention of Human Rights was the development of case law that would construct a regional democracy for bringing consistency in the enjoyment of civil and political rights across the continent. This “human rights project” was well underway, but is now hampered by contemporary forces of power and control that are ridiculing the work and status of the Council of Europe. The paper identifies three levers that move these forces, namely: financial and security terror as well as nationalism. The paper warns that if these forces are not managed, the backlash in social justice will continue while the human rights project for a regional democracy will come to its demise.
Y80|Researching and Working for Transgender Youth: Contexts, Problems and Solutions|In May 2016, two events epitomized the complexities of working for global transgender youth rights. First, United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) hosted a ministerial event in which education ministers from around the world released a call to action for protection of students on the basis of their gender identity and expression in schools. Second, the United Nations (UN) hosted an event celebrating the family, attended by conservative ministers and activists who mobilized family protectionist discourse against transgender students. This article contemplates, in light of transgender activist Raewyn Connell’s Southern Theory contributions, the complexity of global research and work for transgender youth. It considers key informant interviews with 50 stakeholders in the global push for transgender student rights in education, including members of government and non-government organisations, and academics from Northern and Southern countries. Problems in aiding transgender youth at the global level included safety concerns, the impacts of conservative advocates and media backlash (within family and national protectionist discourses), cultural complexities hampering engagement and translation, dissemination hindrances pertaining to established publishing biases, and financial and collaboration barriers. Solutions including virtual work; multi-level leadership; alliance-building; representation; visibility of transgender youth citizenship and family membership; and legal, financial and capacity-building aid are considered.
Y80|Healthy Communities: What Have We Learned and Where do We Go from Here?|Systems theory[1,2]suggests that healthy communities promote healthy individual development.[...]
Y80|The Importance of National Ethos in Military Victories|When nations are violently threatened, the choices that they make in order to cope with the challenge of war reflect different alternative possible reactions. They may choose to fiercely fight their battles; they may prefer to surrender, and sometimes the options lay in-between. One puzzle is, therefore, what makes nations fight, and more importantly—what causes them eventually to win or to lose the war. In search for an answer, this study inquires through secondary sources three historical case studies from World War II: Britain, France and Germany, and reviews how each of these major European powers acted throughout the war. After each historical description, the study examines the part that national ethos played in the manner in which each state handled war in moments of crisis. The national ethos of a people is the creed formed from the shared values and traditions through which the nation views its past, present and future; it is the integrating element that defines a nation’s identity and bonds it into a coherent social group. The study reveals how national ethos is intertwined with another phenomenon of social psychology that turns it into a crucial factor in the management of international campaigns: war enthusiasm. Since national ethos is so crucial for the results of the war that a country might lead in order to survive or prosper, it is imperative for decision makers to bear in mind that it is also subject to a process of shaping and reshaping, as the Soviets have proved in relation to their Russian national ethos during World War II. A word of caution, however, is noteworthy: a wide historical perspective shows that even though the right kind of national ethos is essential for winning a war it is far from being enough. Hence national ethos proves, at the end of the day, to be a necessary condition for military victory but certainly not a sufficient one.
Y80|Reconfiguring the Contours of Statehood and the Rights of Peoples of Disappearing States in the Age of Global Climate Change|Many of the elements that have traditionally supported state level normative self-organization, most notably territory, are being actively undermined by rising sea levels, flooding, desertification, amongst other climate change effects. As more and more states come to be redefined as “disappearing”, that is, states losing their territories to the natural environment through no specific fault of their own, a question arises as to how displaced communities will be assisted in their desire (and right) to continue to practice principles of self-determination and self-government? What is clear is that the international community can no longer continue with the fiction of a unified or unchanging model of the liberal democratic state. Instead, alternative ontological models of sovereign community are required, as is a re-imagining of how statehood might be re-constituted in the future in response to deepening ecological problems. The international community must now begin to address the immanent nature of threats posed to disappearing states and consider how a model of statehood that does not privilege territory as a fixed component of state identity could be operationalized. This paper considers how a democratic reform of statehood might proceed and resettlement agreements for displaced communities determined. The transition to an era of peaceful sovereign relations under deteriorating global climate conditions and growing natural resource scarcity, it argues, will require a significant extension of established traditions of democratic compromise, human rights solidarity and cosmopolitan justice.
Y80|Income Sharing within Households: Evidence from Data on Financial Satisfaction|This paper contributes to the understanding of gender aspects in the intra-household sharing of income. I estimate models of differences in financial satisfaction between household partners using panel data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study, which allows one to account for household-level fixed effects. The paper adds to the literature a further convincing rejection of the equal sharing hypothesis. What is more and novel, the results imply that unequal income sharing is asymmetric and triggered by the relative employment statuses of the partners: in male breadwinner households, the women’s well-being is affected by the distribution factor; in double full-time couples, it is the man’s well-being.
Y80|State-Society Relations in Ethiopia: A Political-Economy Perspective of the Post-1991 Order|This article analyses state-society relations in Ethiopia with particular emphasis on the post-1991 period. The objective of the study is to identify and analyse the fundamental factors of state-society relations at the national level: property rights, political representation, and the urban-rural elite cleavage. The article views state-society relations at the local level with reference to perception and practice, taking into account symbols, social control, ability to make decisions and control over the means of violence. The study was conducted in eight purposively selected localities in three administrative regions in Ethiopia. The empirical data was collected at national and local levels using key informant interviews, focus group discussions, and a household survey. The analysis shows that state-society relations in Ethiopia are driven by three major factors: property rights, political representations and the urban-rural divide.
Y80|Did the Great Recession Downsize Immigrants and Native-Born Americans Differently? Unemployment Differentials by Nativity, Race and Gender from 2007 to 2013 in the U.S|We use data from the Current Population Survey from 2007 and 2013 to investigate demographic differentials in unemployment during the Great Recession in the U.S. Although our analysis is primarily exploratory and descriptive, our major research objective is to illuminate the unemployment differential between the foreign born and the native born. The findings indicate that during the height of the Great Recession, the foreign born had higher unemployment rates than the native born. However, this differential is statistically explained by their observed characteristics, such as race/ethnicity, gender, age and education. With the net of those variables and a few other demographic covariates, foreign born workers as an overall group actually had somewhat lower chances of being unemployed than native born workers. This finding is discussed in terms of the selectivity of immigrant workers and the possibility that they are somewhat more immediately dependent on having a job. After breaking down the foreign born into major racial/ethnic groups, the results suggest that foreign-born blacks and foreign-born Hispanics are particularly selective with the net of their observed characteristics. The possible sources of such differentials by race/ethnicity and by gender are discussed.
Y80|18 Million Cracks, but No Cigar: News Media and the Campaigns of Clinton, Palin, and Bachmann|Decades of research within political science, political communication, and mass media found pervasive gender biased media coverage of female political candidates. However, recent research suggests that gender stereotypes do not have a consistent effect in all campaign environments and when gender stereotypes are not activated, female candidates are not disadvantaged. As a result, if we see a reduction in reliance on gender stereotypes in the media, female candidates should enjoy a more level playing field. In this analysis, we focus on mass media’s coverage of female candidates in elite executive political races. This study conducts a content analysis of media coverage of three recent women candidates for the United States’ highest executive offices: Senator Hillary Clinton, Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann, and Governor Sarah Palin. Our analysis of newspapers and television news coverage confirms the media do not discuss female and male candidates in neutral terms, but instead fall back onto traditional gender stereotypes and emphasize female candidates’ physical appearances and family roles far more frequently than they do for male candidates. This may, in turn, prime gender stereotypes in voters, impair candidates’ fundraising ability, and limit the electoral ambition of future generations of female candidates.
Y80|Approaches to Sampling Gay, Bisexual, and Other Men Who Have Sex with Men from Geosocial-Networking Smartphone Applications: A Methodological Note|Geosocial-networking smartphone applications utilize global positioning system (GPS) technologies to connect users based on their physical proximity. Many gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) have smartphones, and these new mobile technologies have generated quicker and easier modes for MSM to meet potential partners. In doing so, these technologies may facilitate a user’s ability to have multiple concurrent partners, thereby increasing their risk for acquiring HIV or other sexually transmitted infections. Researchers have sought to recruit users of these applications (e.g., Grindr, Jack’d, Scruff) into HIV prevention studies, primarily through advertising on the application. Given that these advertisements often broadly targeted large urban areas, these approaches have generated samples that are not representative of the population of users of the given application in a given area. As such, we propose a method to generate a spatially representative sample of MSM via direct messaging on a given application using New York City and its geography as an example of this sampling and recruitment method. These methods can increase geographic representativeness and wider access to MSM who use geosocial-networking smartphone applications.
Y80|“Religious Freedom” as a Tool to Oppress: The Explosion in Religion-Based Attacks on Civil Rights in Litigation|Over the last half-decade, there has been an explosion in the United States of lawsuits in which claims to religious liberty have been used to justify abridging the civil rights of women, LGBTQ people, and other minorities. This article surveys such litigation in several areas: health-insurance coverage, healthcare services, marriage-related services, employment, and housing. For each area, the article analyzes recent litigation, compares it to earlier activity (if any), and discusses the kinds of arguments that have been made, how courts have responded to them, and how such arguments are likely to fare in the future. The article concludes that the ultimate fate of many of these kinds of cases will likely be determined by who the next member is of a U.S. Supreme Court that is currently split four-four between social liberals and conservatives.
Y80|Prescribing under the Influence: The Business of Breastmilk Substitutes|This study draws on a general theoretical framework comprising of a decision maker (a doctor), perceived moral intensity of the issue (breastfeeding substitute prescription), and the situational environment (hospital policy, pharma company promotions, and mother’s beliefs regarding breastfeeding) to explain the physician’s role and influence on mothers’ infant feeding choices when prescribing infant formula in Kuwait, Middle East. Moral intensity is an issue-contingent model that suggests ethical decisions vary in terms of how much a moral imperative is present in a situation. The moral intensity of the issue is assessed using six components. Path Least Squares results indicate the following moral intensity components have significant impact on prescription behavior: magnitude of consequences, probability of effect, and temporal immediacy. Company promotion and hospital policy also significantly influence doctor’s prescription of infant formula. Doctors appear to disengage from the consequences of over prescribing infant formula.
Y80|Dispositional Immobility: An Analysis of Non-Decisions as Public Policy in Alberta’s City-Regions|For local governments in city-regions, the term “dispositional immobility” can be applied in situations where the question of municipal restructuring becomes an arena for permanent public policy non-decisions. Disposition is here used to mean both the inherent qualities of persons and communities, and the arrangement of the structures within an area. It is argued that administrative stasis results as dispositional immobility creates tactical political barriers to innovation, and policy inaction becomes a deliberate response. In Alberta, city-regions since the 1950s have preserved multiple autonomous municipalities rather than initiating centripetal reforms as is the case elsewhere in Canada. An analysis of the province and its leadership during the past half-century suggests reasons for this entrenched dispositional immobility within the institutional culture of Alberta’s city-regions. Our conclusion suggests that the time has come to rethink and challenge the long-standing and unquestioned continuation of the city-regional structural status quo.
Y80|Children’s Civic Engagement in the Scratch Online Community|In public discourse, and in the governance of online communities, young people are often denied agency. Children are frequently considered objects to protect, safeguard, and manage. Yet as children go online from very early ages, they develop emergent forms of civic and political engagement. Children appropriate the affordances of digital platforms in order to discuss, connect, and act with their peers and in their communities. In this paper, we analyze civic engagement in Scratch Online, a creative community where children from around the world learn programming by designing and sharing interactive media projects. We explore the ways that young Scratch community members connect with issues of global importance, as well as with local topics and questions of community governance. We develop a typology of the strategies they use to express themselves, engage with their peers, and call for action. We then analyze the reaction of the community, including other Scratch members and adult moderators, and draw key lessons from these examples in order to describe guidelines for educators and designers who would like to support children’s rights to civic engagement in online learning environments.
Y80|Boomers versus Millennials: Online Media Influence on Media Performance and Candidate Evaluations|Facebook posts, YouTube videos, tweets and wooing political bloggers have become standard practice in marketing political campaigns. Research has demonstrated the effect of new media on a host of politically-related behavior, including political participation, knowledge acquisition, group formation and self-efficacy. Yet, issues related to media trust, media performance and candidate evaluations have not been fully explored. In addition, much of the political marketing research looks exclusively at the Millennial age cohort, ignoring other age groups, particularly Baby Boomers. This case study addresses whether attention to traditional (i.e., television, hard-copy newspapers and radio) and online media sources (i.e., political candidate websites, television network websites, online newspapers, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr and political blogs) about the 2012 U.S. presidential campaign influences Millennials and Baby Boomers’ media trust and performance ratings, as well as candidate evaluations. Panel surveys were completed by both age cohorts, Millennials ( n = 431) and Baby Boomers ( n = 360), during the last two weeks of the presidential election. Findings indicate that traditional sources, specifically television, rather than online sources are significantly linked to media trust and performance ratings among both Boomers and Millennials. Attention to traditional media for campaign information predicts Boomers’ candidate evaluations, whereas Millennials’ candidate evaluations are influenced by online sources, such as Facebook and candidate websites.
Y80|War Trauma, Politics of Recognition and Purple Heart: PTSD or PTSI?|This paper discusses the exclusion of veterans with combat PTSD (CPTSD) from eligibility for the Purple Heart (PH). The main argument is that this exclusion is unjustified and that it strengthens the stigma attached to the traumatized veterans, with detrimental implications to their wellbeing. In the context of the politics of recognition, the history of the term PTSD, and with support evidence from brain studies, the paper contends that in the case of combat veterans, posttraumatic stress should be termed PTSI (posttraumatic stress injury) rather than PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder). The proposed alteration in terminology may enable eligibility of posttraumatic combat veterans’ for the Purple Heart, and consequently mitigate the stigma of their wounds, help to deconstruct their misrecognition as inferior to physiologically wounded, increase their willingness to seek aid, and improve their chances to heal.
Y80|Support for Protests in Latin America: Classifications and the Role of Online Networking|In recent years, Latin Americans marched the streets in a wave of protests that swept almost every country in the region. Yet few studies have assessed how Latin Americans support various forms of protest, and how new technologies affect attitudes toward protest tactics. Using data from the Latin American Public Opinion Project (N = 37,102), cluster analyses grouped citizens into four distinct groups depending on their support for protests. Most Latin Americans support moderate forms of protest, rejecting more radical tactics. Online networking is associated with support for both moderate and radical protests. But those who support only moderate protests use online networking sites more than Latin Americans as a whole, while those who support radical protests use online networking sites significantly less. Our findings suggest that only peaceful and legal demonstrations have been normalized in the region, and online networking foments support for moderate protest tactics.
Y80|Just Not Like Us: The Interactive Impact of Dimensions of Identity and Race in Attitudes towards Immigration|Since 2009, more Mexicans have been leaving rather than coming to the USA; likewise, illegal immigration from Mexico has declined. Yet, immigration remains a hotly contested issue in the 2016 presidential election, with a seemingly marked increase in anti-immigrant policy and rhetoric, much of which is directed at immigrants from Mexico. In this paper, we seek to explain how individual ethnocultural and civic-based conceptions of what it means to be an American influence attitudes towards immigration. Past theoretical research on national identity has framed the effects of these dimensions as interactive but past empirical work has yet to demonstrate an important interaction between race and ethnocultural identity. Failure to account for these interaction effects has led to inaccurate assumptions about the levels of hostility towards immigrants and how widespread anti-immigrant sentiment really is. We demonstrate a clear interactive effect between identification as white and ethnocultural dimensions of identity and show that this effect has masked the root of the most ardent anti-immigrant sentiment. We also show that while there is a sizeable minority of the population that identifies as both white and have high levels of ethnocultural identity, a majority of Americans prefer to keep immigration levels at the status quo and have an identity that is balanced between ethnoculturalism and civic-based conceptions of identity.
Y80|Azerbaijani Women, Online Mediatized Activism and Offline Mass Mobilization|Despite its post-Soviet history, Azerbaijan is an under-investigated country in academic research—compared with the other former constituencies, such as the Baltic countries or Russia, of the USSR—and gender questions of the contemporary Azerbaijani society are even less touched on. Within the current context of the post-“Arab Spring” era of mediatized connectivity and collective political engagement, this article looks into and analyzes how Azerbaijani women participate in different online and offline social and political movements, and if (and how) they are impeded by the increased state authoritarianism in Azerbaijan. Using data, obtained from online information resources, yearly reports of human rights organizations, focus group discussions, and interviews, the study detects four major activist constellations within the Azerbaijani field of gendered politics. Based on the analysis of conditions of detected groups, the article claims that flash mobs, a tactic employed mainly by liberal activists, emerge as the promising way in overcoming the normative nature of Azerbaijani patriarchal society, thus providing an opportunity for normalization and internalization of the feeling of being on the street and acting in concert with others—the practices which might lead towards an increasing participation of (especially young) women in the political processes of the country.
Y80|Banishment in Public Housing: Testing an Evolution of Broken Windows|Banishment policies grant police the authority to formally ban individuals from entering public housing and arrest them for trespassing if they violate the ban. Despite its widespread use and the social consequences resulting from it, an empirical evaluation of the effectiveness of banishment has not been performed. Understanding banishment enforcement is an evolution of broken windows policing, this study explores how effective bans are at reducing crime in public housing. We analyze crime data, spanning the years 2001–2012, from six public housing communities and 13 surrounding communities in one southeastern U.S. city. Using Arellano-Bond dynamic panel models, we investigate whether or not issuing bans predicts reductions in property and violent crimes as well as increases in drug and trespass arrests in public housing. We find that this brand of broken windows policing does reduce crime, albeit relatively small reductions and only for property crime, while resulting in an increase in trespass arrests. Given our findings that these policies have only a modest impact on property crime, yet produce relatively larger increases in arrests for minor offenses in communities of color, and ultimately have no significant impact on violent crime, it will be important for police, communities, and policy makers to discuss whether the returns are worth the potential costs.
Y80|40 Is the New 65? Older Adults and Niche Targeting Strategies in the Online Dating Industry|Niche dating sites have become a popular trend in the online dating industry; yet, little is known about the specialization strategies these sites use to cater to their users’ needs. Moreover, previous research alludes to the idea that many of these sites may be engaging in pseudo-individualization —a deceptive technique that creates an illusion of specialization. This study focuses on niche dating sites for older adults, one of the fastest growing niches in online dating. Through a qualitative content analysis and close reading of older-adult dating sites, I seek to determine how and to what extent online dating sites that target older adults actually customize their services to benefit this population. Three key findings emerge: (1) the use of mass segmentation, a strategy that combines elements of both mass marketing and market segmentation; (2) a strategic broadening of the boundaries of the older-adult niche; and (3) the use of deceptive advertising to attract users. These findings suggest that older-adult dating sites are, in fact, engaging in pseudo-individualization. They also highlight some of the unique aspects of online media that facilitate this practice. Implications for both online daters and site producers are discussed.
Y80|Turning Points in the Lives of Chinese and Indian Women Leaders Working toward Social Justice|Institutional change has a human face. This paper explores how a select group of women in China and India experienced economic and political turmoil and why they chose to become change agents. Through in-depth interviews with 40 women from NGOs, government agencies and private business, four broad moments in the evolution of a change agent are identified and discussed: (1) awareness of a double-bind; (2) reframing the tension induced by that double-bind; (3) becoming an agent of change; and (4) building a vibrant network. To highlight these key features, four women’s narratives are discussed in greater depth from recognizing injustice to taking a non-traditional stand. The paper concludes with a call for further comparative work on the role of personal narratives in shaping a movement for change.
Y80|Ascription, Achievement, and Perceived Equity of Educational Regimes: An Empirical Investigation|This article considers how countries differ in the opinions that citizens hold about the fairness of the social and educational system. From the literature, we derive a typology of four educational “regimes”, based on differences in educational system, labour market and welfare state design. We then use data from the ISSP (2009) to investigate how much weight respondents attribute to ascribed characteristics (e.g., being born in a wealthy family) and individual responsibility (e.g., working hard) to explain success in life or at school. We also examine how these judgments relate to the educational background of the respondents. We consider how these patterns correspond to the existing knowledge on social and economic inequality and what this means for the legitimacy of the social system.
Y80|Netflix and Engage? Implications for Streaming Television on Political Participation during the 2016 US Presidential Campaign|A large body of existing research has consistently demonstrated that the use of social networking sites (SNS) by citizens in elections is positively related to different forms of both offline and online participation. The opposite argument, however, is often advanced with regard to increased viewing broadcast or cable television, particularly entertainment programming. This study proceeds from this broad vantage point by examining survey-based indicators of active SNS use and conventional television viewing in the 2016 presidential primaries, as well as the frequency of streaming television viewing during the early stages of this campaign. Data for this study was drawn from a representative nationwide online panel, and findings observed here suggest that more personalized communication through the ongoing morphology of social networking sites and streaming both political and apolitical television content are significant factors in positively shaping both online and offline participation. Comparisons with other media including conventional television viewing are introduced, and theoretical implications from a media system dependency framework are discussed.
Y80|The New Eugenics: Black Hyper-Incarceration and Human Abatement|In the early twentieth century, the eugenics movement exercised considerable influence over domestic US public policy. Positive eugenics encouraged the reproduction of “fit” human specimens while negative eugenics attempted to reduce the reproduction of “unfit” specimens like the “feebleminded” and the criminal. Although eugenics became a taboo concept after World War II, it did not disappear. It was merely repackaged. Incarceration is no longer related to stated eugenic goals, yet incapacitation in prisons still exerts a prophylactic effect on human reproduction. Because minorities are incarcerated in disproportionately high numbers, the prophylactic effect of incarceration affects them most dramatically. In fact, for black males, the effect of hyper-incarceration might be so great as to depress overall reproduction rates. This article identifies some of the legal and extralegal variables that would be relevant for such an analysis and calls for such an investigation.
Y80|Postcolonial Reflection on the Christian Mission: The Case of North Korean Refugees in China and South Korea|The purpose of this paper is to challenge the dominant narrative of Christian service providers working for North Korean refugees’ welfare, and to articulate the perspectives of non-Christian aid recipients, especially North Korean refugees in China and South Korea. Drawing upon postcolonialism, I will unpack dysfunctions of Christian missions and ministries while relating them to anthropological insights and ethnographic research data. As a Christian scholar, I attempt to invite Christian leaders and field workers to engage in critical reflections on their goals, dispositions, and strategies in relating to the culturally, politically, and economically marginalized. This paper is aimed to offer opportunities for Christian missionaries to critique their colonial models and to reclaim their missions that decolonize both missionaries and the missionized.
Y80|Angry and Alone: Demographic Characteristics of Those Who Post to Online Comment Sections|The Internet and social media afford individuals the opportunity to post their thoughts instantaneously and largely without filters. While this has tremendous democratic potential, it also raises questions about the quality of the discourse these technological changes portend. Online comment sections may be a particularly unique form of communication within social media to investigate because of their ubiquitous and often anonymous nature. A longitudinal examination of Pew Center data over the course of 4 years suggests that there are demographic differences between people who post and those who do not post to online comment sections. Specifically, in 2008 and 2010 regression analysis demonstrates there is an increased likelihood of posting among men, the unmarried, and the unemployed. However, the 2012 data tells a different story and suggests the possibility that the nature of comment sections might be changing. The findings have important implications for understanding the character of online discourse as well as the vitriol undergirding the political attitudes of disaffected citizens.
