Y91|Scientific production and productivity in curriculum vitae characterisation: simple and nested H indices that support cross-disciplinary comparisons|In this study, I developed operational versions of Hirsch’s H index that can be applied to each researcher’s curriculum vitae (CV) to allow cross-disciplinary comparisons. The revised indices account for anomalies that potentially arise from tactical or opportunistic citation and publication behaviours by authors and editors, and can be calculated from readily available information. I split the original H index into nested indices to isolate networking activity, distinguish scientific production and productivity, and used nested Gini indices to identify intentional and successful inter-topical and inter-disciplinary research. I applied the most popular normalisations (i.e., per author and per year) using simple methodologies (i.e., least-squares linear and cubic interpolation fitting, whole-career vs. sub-periods, two-dimensional graphs) to solve empirical problems (e.g., sensitivity to citations, the “fashion” effect, attribution to disciplines, life cycle of articles) as well as open questions (e.g., the attribution of an article to a given discipline) associated with the original H index. I provided three numerical examples based on a representative heterodox, a representative orthodox multi-disciplinary, and a representative orthodox uni-disciplinary CV: the first CV includes 17 Scopus publications, and shows a highly heterodox (i.e., 5.8%), but no interdisciplinary research career, with a tiny networking component (i.e., 0.9%); the second CV includes 24 Scopus publications, and shows a slightly heterodox (i.e., 0.3%), but highly interdisciplinary (i.e., 53.9%) research career, with a small networking component (i.e., 14.3%); the third CV includes 16 Scopus publications, and shows slightly heterodox (i.e., 0.1%) and no interdisciplinary research career, with no networking component.
Y91|What publications metadata tell us about the evolution of a scientific community: the case of the Brazilian human–computer interaction conference series|Abstract Human–computer interaction (HCI) is a research field which engages different disciplines, interest groups and communities, and which has emerged in different countries at different times. To understand how the HCI research community has evolved in Brazil, this paper applies data and visual analytics to its main conference series, the Brazilian Symposium on Human Factors in Computing Systems, henceforth IHC. We have explored the metadata of all 340 full papers published in the 14 editions of IHC. Our goal was to investigate the evolution of the Brazilian HCI community so we can raise the level of “self-knowledge” and thus discuss strategies that can further help develop this research community. From our analysis, we could understand more deeply the authorship profile of our community and how it has changed over time, the co-authorship networks evolution, the prominent institutions and states, the reference profile and the research topics over time. We hope that this paper will contribute to inspire other scientific communities to analyze themselves, and encourage their own discussions.
Y91|Co-authorship and Academic Productivity in Economics: Interaction Maps from the Complex Networks Approach|We explore the relationship between collaborations in writing papers and the academic productivity of economists and, particularly, we describe the magnitude and intensity of co-authorship among economists. To that end, we employ interaction maps from Complex Systems methods to study the global properties of specific networks. We use 8,253 JCR papers from ISI-WOK, published by 5,188 economists from Spanish institutions, and their co-authors, up to 8,202 researchers, from 2002 to 2014, to identify and determine the collaborative structure of economics research in Spain, with its primary communities and figures of influence. Our results indicate that centrality and productivity are correlated, particularly with respect to a local estimator of centrality (page rank), and we provide certain recommendations, such as promoting interactions among highly productive authors who have few co-authors with other researchers in their environment, or recommending that authors who may be well-positioned but minimally productive strive to improve their productivity.
Y91|Co-authorship and Academic Productivity in Economics: Interaction Maps from the Complex Networks Approach|We explore the relationship between collaborations in writing papers and the academic productivity of economists and, particularly, we describe the magnitude and intensity of co-authorship among economists. To that end, we employ interaction maps from Complex Systems methods to study the global properties of specific networks. We use 8,253 JCR papers from ISI-WOK, published by 5,188 economists from Spanish institutions, and their co-authors, up to 8,202 researchers, from 2002 to 2014, to identify and determine the collaborative structure of economics research in Spain, with its primary communities and figures of influence. Our results indicate that centrality and productivity are correlated, particularly with respect to a local estimator of centrality (page rank), and we provide certain recommendations, such as promoting interactions among highly productive authors who have few co-authors with other researchers in their environment, or recommending that authors who may be well-positioned but minimally productive strive to improve their productivity.
Y91|Existence of Super Chaotic Attractors in a General Piecewise Smooth Map of the Plane|In this paper we give some rigorous conditions for the occurrence of super chaotic attractors in a general piecewise smooth map of the plane.
Y91|How Important are Local Inventive Milieus: The role of Birthplace, High School and University Education|Using the whole population and almost all individuals in Sweden listed as inventors, we study how the probability of being listed on a patent as inventor is influenced by the density of other future inventors residing in the same region, while controlling for demographic and sector effects along with the educational characteristics of parents. We focus on three such densities: a) future inventors in the municipality around the time of birth, b) future inventors around the time of graduation from high school and c) future inventors at graduation from higher education. We find suggestive evidence that co-locating with future inventors impact on the probability of becoming an inventor in some cases. The most consistent of these effects is found for place of higher education, with some positive effects also most likely coming from birthplace, whereas no consistent positive effect is found from the individuals’ high school location. Formative influences to become an inventor therefore seem mainly to derive from family upbringing, birth region and from local milieu effects derived from conscious choices into higher education.
Y91|Vorausberechnung regionaler Altersarmut: Zunahme in Ballungsräumen und in Ostdeutschland|Until recently, old-age poverty in Germany has been no central subject in the socio-political discussion. By this discussion, only the social help to elderly people is taken into account. Besides, only half of the old-age poverty is monitored and does not consider that the housing subsidy (rent subsidies) is another financial support for the old people. If both social benefits are added up, the quantity of the poor old people doubles. Only the consideration of social help to elderly people and housing subsidy proves the true magnitude of the old-age poverty in Germany. On an average four percent of the old people need one of both social benefits. There are, however, greater regional differences. A new method has been developed to provide a forecast about old-age poverty in future which also makes regional investigations possible. The initial year of the forecast is in 2011, between 2011 and 2021 the old-age poverty rises strongly and the regional differences have strongly grown. Altersarmut wird in der sozialpolitischen Diskussion in Deutschland vor allem mit Blick auf die Grundsicherung im Alter diskutiert, zumindest darauf fokussiert ist Altersarmut bisher kein zentrales Thema. Mit der Grundsicherung wird allerdings nur die Hälfte der Altersarmut gesehen. Vergessen wird das Wohngeld, eine weitere finanzielle Unterstützung für Ältere. Wird auch dieses berücksichtigt, verdoppelt sich die Quote der von Einkommensarmut betroffenen Älteren. Ost- und Westdeutschland liegen dabei mit jeweils etwa vier Prozent gleichauf. Es gibt aber durchaus größere regionale Unterschiede. Eine Abschätzung der Altersarmut nach Regionen ausgehend von 2011 für das Jahr 2021 auf der Grundlage eines regionalen Prognosemodells zeigt, dass sich die Altersarmut sehr zuungunsten Ostdeutschlands verändern wird. Ballungsräume, die Stadtstaaten sowie einzelne ostdeutsche Landkreise werden in Zukunft die höchsten Armutsquoten aufweisen.
Y91|Proposals For Construction Of Tourist Image In Botosani County|Article aims to highlight the main elements unique tourism potential in Botosani County and need to develop a tourist images of this area. Turistic potential of rural areas is huge, but it is harnessed and exploited, though authenticity can create atractavitate territory for tourists. Rural tourism is an opportunity for existing potential for raising living standards, but it should have three primary phases: identification, promotion and development. Thus the study proposes several priority axes craerea and rural tourism brand, with the priority items identified.
Y91|De ruimtelijke metamorfose van Schiphol: van polderdorp naar nevelstad<BR>[Spatial metamorphosis of Schiphol Airport: from polder village to a nebula city]|De geschiedschrijving van vliegvelden en hun metamorfose in metropolitaanse gebieden is onlosmakelijk verbonden met processen van verstedelijking, decentralisatie, economische groei en de ruimtelijke aanwas van steden, buitenwijken en regio’s. Die processen worden niet door enig ontwerp gestuurd, maar door veranderingen in grond-en gebouwengebruik en bewegingen van mensen, goederen, kapitaal, diensten, informatie en de infrastructurele netwerken die de wonende en werkende mens in beweging brengen. Het gaat daarbij om functionele patronen in de bewegingen en transacties die op hun beurt weer invloed hebben op de ruimtelijke structuren, dat wil zeggen de fysieke verschijningsvorm die dergelijke activiteiten ter plekke produceren. In dit (hoofd)stuk willen we inzichtelijk maken hoe de groeistuipen van Schiphol eraan hebben bijgedragen dat het noordwestelijke deel van de Randstad is uitgegroeid tot een bijzonder metropolitaans gebied met een eigen stedelijke structuur en cultuur. Dat verschijnsel hebben we nevelstad genoemd. Hier analyseren we vooral de groeiprocessen zoals die hebben plaatsgevonden in de regio rond Schiphol: in Amsterdam en de Haarlemmermeer. Hier ontstond een verneveling die zich vanaf de jaren zestig over het westen van Nederland snel heeft uitgebreid, tot aan de Brabantse stedenrij toe.
Y91|Problematising the Effect of Rural - Urban Linkages on Food Secutiry and Malnutrition in Guatemala´s Western Highlands|Strong rural-urban linkages are increasingly seen as key to achieving sustainable livelihoods and food security in developing countries. However, not all linkages are positive and, although this is recognised in literature, few explore their potential unfavorable characteristics. Based on twelve weeks fieldwork in Guatemala this paper aims to contribute in four ways. Firstly, it details the extent of rural-urban linkages in the lives of ordinary Guatemalans, the reasons for their existence and the contribution they make to food security. Secondly, it highlights the existence of rural-urban criminal networks that negatively impact livelihoods and food security. Thirdly, it illustrates how poor quality linkages in government administration and service provision render them ineffective in alleviating food insecurity and malnutrition. Finally, by focusing on the case of Coca-Cola, it illustrates how extensive rural-urban networks of processed food and drink companies bring with them economic benefits, but adversely affect food security and nutrition through a number of mechanisms. The paper concludes that in order to better design policies aimed at improving livelihoods, food security and nutrition, the growth of rural-urban linkages in different spheres of private and public life should be analysed for its negative as well as positive contributions.
Y91|Factores y Mapas de Riesgo Electoral. Alcaldía de Cali 2003 y 2007|Este documento busca identificar anomalías e irregularidades electorales en el Municipio de Santiago de Cali,a través del análisis descriptivo de datos de las elecciones a la Alcaldía de Cali 2003 y 2007, con las elecciones a Cámara de Representantes 2010 como variable de control, por medio del cálculo de factores de riesgo y elaboración de mapas de riesgo electoral, tanto para la zona rural como urbana del Municipio, utilizando la metodología de la Misión de Observación Electoral.
