Z12|Devotion and Development: Religiosity, Education, and Economic Progress in 19th-Century France|This paper uses a historical setting to study when religion can be a barrier to the diffusion of knowledge and economic development, and through which mechanism. I focus on 19th-century Catholicism and analyze a crucial phase of modern economic growth, the Second Industrial Revolution (1870-1914) in France. In this period, technology became skill-intensive, leading to the introduction of technical education in primary schools. At the same time, the Catholic Church was promoting a particularly antiscientific program and opposed the adoption of a technical curriculum. Using data collected from primary and secondary sources, I exploit preexisting variation in the intensity of Catholicism (i.e., religiosity) among French districts and cantons. I show that, despite a stable spatial distribution of religiosity over time, more religious locations had lower economic development only during the Second Industrial Revolution, but not before. Schooling appears to be the key mechanism: more religious areas saw a slower introduction of the technical curriculum and instead a push for religious education. Religious education, in turn, was negatively associated with industrial development about 10 to15 years later, when school-aged children entered the labor market, and this negative relationship was more pronounced in skill-intensive industrial sectors.
Z12|A Time to Print; a Time to Reform|The public mechanical clock and the movable type printing press were two of the most important and complex general purpose technologies of the late medieval period. We document two of their most important, yet unforeseeable, consequences. First, an instrumental variables analysis indicates that towns that were early adopters of clocks were more likely to also be early adopters of presses. We posit that towns with clocks became upper-tail human capital hubs—both technologies required extensive technical know-how that had many points of overlap. Second, a three-stage instrumental variables analysis indicates that the press inﬂuenced the adoption of Lutheranism and Calvinism, while the clock’s eﬀect on the Reformation was indirect (via the press).
Z12|The Effect of Religious Priming in Pro-social and Destructive Behavior|In this paper, we study the behavioural impact of religious priming by showing participants religious words in a scrambled sentence task before a dictator game and a joy-of-destruction game. We also elicited data on individual religiosity and religious affiliation using a questionnaire. Priming religious words significantly increased pro-social behaviour in the dictator game, and the effect was especially striking among those reporting no religion, atheists and agnostics. The religious prime has no significant effect in mitigating destructive behaviour or own expectations of the other's destruction choice, but both destructive behaviour and expectations correlate positively with the multi-dimensional religiosity measure.
Z12|The Logic of Fear: Populism and Media Coverage of Immigrant Crimes|"We study how news coverage of immigrant criminality impacted municipality-level votes in the November 2009 ""minaret ban"" referendum in Switzerland. The campaign, successfully led by the populist Swiss People's Party, played aggressively on fears of Muslim immigration and linked Islam with terrorism and violence. We combine an exhaustive violent crime detection dataset with detailed information on crime coverage from 12 newspapers. The data allow us to quantify the extent of pre-vote media bias in the coverage of migrant criminality. We then estimate a theory-based voting equation in the cross-section of municipalities. Exploiting random variations in crime occurrences, we find a first-order, positive effect of news coverage on political support for the minaret ban. Counterfactual simulations show that, under a law forbidding newspapers to disclose a perpetrator's nationality, the vote in favor of the ban would have decreased by 5 percentage points (from 57.6% to 52.6%)."
Z12|Taxing Identity: Theory and Evidence from Early Islam|A ruler who does not identify with a social group, whether on religious, ethnic, cultural or socioeconomic grounds, is confronted with a trade-off between taking advantage of the out-group population's eagerness to maintain its identity and inducing it to ``comply'' (conversion, quit, exodus or any other way of accommodating the ruler's own identity). This paper first analyzes the ruler's optimal mix of discriminatory and non-discriminatory taxation, both in a static and an evolving environment. The paper then uses novel data sources to test the theory in the context of Egypt's conversion to Islam between 641 and 1200. The evidence is broadly consistent with the theoretical predictions.
Z12|Devotion and Development: Religiosity, Education, and Economic Progress in 19th-Century France|This paper uses a historical setting to study when religion can be a barrier to the diffusion of knowledge and economic development, and through which mechanism. I focus on 19th-century Catholicism and analyze a crucial phase of modern economic growth, the Second Industrial Revolution (1870-1914) in France. In this period, technology became skill-intensive, leading to the introduction of technical education in primary schools. At the same time, the Catholic Church was promoting a particularly antiscientific program and opposed the adoption of a technical curriculum. Using data collected from primary and secondary sources, I exploit preexisting variation in the intensity of Catholicism (i.e., religiosity) among French districts and cantons. I show that, despite a stable spatial distribution of religiosity over time, more religious locations had lower economic development only during the Second Industrial Revolution, but not before. Schooling appears to be the key mechanism: more religious areas saw a slower introduction of the technical curriculum and instead a push for religious education. Religious education, in turn, was negatively associated with industrial development about 10 to15 years later, when school-aged children entered the labor market, and this negative relationship was more pronounced in skill-intensive industrial sectors.
Z12|Roots of Gender Equality: the Persistent Effect of Beguinages on Attitudes Toward Women|This paper is concerned with the historical roots of gender equality. It proposes and empirically assesses a new determinant of gender equality: gender-specific outside options in the marriage market. In particular, enlarging women's options besides marriage - even if only temporarily - increases their bargaining power with respect to men, leading to a persistent improvement in gender equality. We illustrate this mechanism focusing on Belgium, and relate gender-equality levels in the 19th century to the presence of medieval, female-only communities called beguinages that allowed women to remain single amidst a society that traditionally advocated marriage. Combining geo-referenced data on beguinal communities with 19th-century census data, we document that the presence of beguinages was instrumental in decreasing the gender gap in literacy. The reduction is sizeable, amounting to a 5.3 % drop in gender educational inequality.
Z12|The Economics of Missionary Expansion: Evidence from Africa and Implications for Development|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent's dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the long-term economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favorable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification.
Z12|The Logic of Fear - Populism and Media Coverage of Immigrant Crimes|"We study how news coverage of immigrant criminality impacted municipality-level votes in the November 2009 ""minaret ban"" referendum in Switzerland. The campaign, successfully led by the populist Swiss People's Party, played aggressively on fears of Muslim immigration and linked Islam with terrorism and violence. We combine an exhaustive violent crime detection dataset with detailed information on crime coverage from 12 newspapers. The data allow us to quantify the extent of pre-vote media bias in the coverage of migrant criminality. We then estimate a theory-based voting equation in the cross-section of municipalities. Exploiting random variations in crime occurrences, we find a first-order, positive effect of news coverage on political support for the minaret ban. Counterfactual simulations show that, under a law forbidding newspapers to disclose a perpetrator's nationality, the vote in favor of the ban would have decreased by 5 percentage points (from 57.6% to 52.6%)."
Z12|The Economics of Missionary Expansion: Evidence from Africa and Implications for Development|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent’s dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the long-term economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favorable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification.
Z12|A Time to Print, a Time to Reform|The public mechanical clock and the movable type printing press were two of the most important and complex general purpose technologies of the late medieval period. We document two of their most important, yet unforeseeable, consequences. First, an instrumental variables analysis indicates that towns that were early adopters of clocks were more likely to also be early adopters of presses. We posit that towns with clocks became upper-tail human capital hubs—both technologies required extensive technical know-how that had many points of overlap. Second, a three-stage instrumental variables analysis indicates that the press influenced the adoption of Lutheranism and Calvinism, while the clock’s effect on the Reformation was indirect (via the press).
Z12|The Effect of Superstition on Health: Evidence from the Taiwanese Ghost Month|Superstition is a widespread phenomenon. We empirically examine its impact on health-related behavior and health outcomes. We study the case of the Taiwanese Ghost month. During this period, which is believed to increase the likelihood of bad outcomes, we observe substantial adaptions in health-related behavior. Our identification exploits idiosyncratic variation in the timing of the Ghost Month across Gregorian calendar years. Using high-quality administrative data, we document for the period of the Ghost Months reductions in mortality, hospital admissions, and births. While the effect on mortality is a quantum effect, the latter two effects reflect changes in the timing of events. Efficient public health policy should account for emotional and cultural factors.
Z12|Conflicting Identities: Cosmopolitan or Anxious? Appreciating Concerns of Host Country Population Improves Attitudes Towards Immigrants|This paper connects insights from the literature on cosmopolitan values in political science, anxiety in social psychology, and identity economics in a vignette-style experiment. We asked German respondents about their attitudes towards a Syrian refugee, randomizing components of his description (N=662). The main treatment describes the refugee as being aware of and empathetic towards potential Germans' worries about cultural change, costs and violence associated with refugee inflows. This increases reported levels of sympathy and trust substantially, especially for risk averse people. We argue that acknowledging concerns of the host population relieves the tension between an anxious and a cosmopolitan part of peoples' identities. When one aspect of identity is already acknowledged (expressing anxieties) it has less influence on actual behavior (expressing sympathy). In addition, we find that previous contact with foreigners and a higher willingness to take risks are important factors to determine an individual's willingness to interact with refugees.
Z12|The Effect of Superstition on Health: Evidence from the Taiwanese Ghost Month|Superstition is a widespread phenomenon. We empirically examine its impact on health-related behavior and health outcomes. We study the case of the Taiwanese Ghost month. During this period, which is believed to increase the likelihood of bad outcomes, we observe substantial adaptions in health-related behavior. Our identification exploits idiosyncratic variation in the timing of the Ghost Month across Gregorian calendar years. Using high-quality administrative data, we document for the period of the Ghost Months reductions in mortality, hospital admissions, and births. While the effect on mortality is a quantum effect, the latter two effects reflect changes in the timing of events. Efficient public health policy should account for emotional and cultural factors.
Z12|Does social context affect poverty? The role of religious congregations|This paper contributes to the literature that aims at identifying and measuring the impact of social context on individual-level outcomes. We focus on religious congregations (social groups with which Christian worshipers feel associated) and investigate congregation effects on individual poverty using U.S. data and a multilevel approach. In order to correct for selection effects, we model congregation choice using a multinomial logit model and subsequently incorporate correction components into the multilevel model of congregation effects. Our empirical results support the existence of congregation effects and, therefore, the importance of social context on individual poverty. We find that congregation size, recreational services, initiatives to integrate new members and behavior standards play important roles in shaping the probability that churchgoers experience poverty. Individual behavior (in terms of participation in the religious life of congregations) also matters. These finding are in line with the idea that congregations’ activities can foster social interactions and cooperation reducing individual probability of experiencing poverty.
Z12|Dishonest Behavior: Sin Big or Go Home|Economic agents face many different types of economic incentives when making financial and moral decisions. We provide experimental data from a population that uniquely responds to incentives to lie compared to previously studied populations. We conduct a standard 6-sided die rolling lying study within a population that believes that God has knowledge of all their actions. Within this population, we find that those who attend church frequently appear to refrain from lying while those that do not frequently attend church do lie, but do not disguise their lies like more secular populations. We further explain how our data fits into the theoretical work on lying.
Z12|Locke, Cranston and the case for toleration|This paper focuses on one of the most established names in twentieth century Locke studies, Maurice Cranston, and considers Cranstonâ€™s interpretation of John Lockeâ€™s theory of toleration. It argues that Cranston misunderstands Lockeâ€™s theory at several basic and fundamental points. By considering Cranstonâ€™s interpretation of Locke, and its pitfalls, we are able to gain a clearer understanding of Lockeâ€™s theory itself. This in itself is worthwhile given the contemporary salience of that theory, one commentator even insisting that current discussions of religious toleration have not advanced beyond the definitive framework that Locke established for this issue over three hundred years ago.
Z12|Blockchains for Islamic finance: Obstacles & Challenges|This paper focuses on analyzing the innovative technology “Blockchain” and the potential of blockchain-based applications for Islamic finance. The main objectives were to define how blockchain can change the Islamic finance industry. The paper discussed the various interesting applications of blockchain in Islamic finance that can bring different benefits. The paper also shed light on the challenges facing Applying Blockchains for Islamic finance .
Z12|A Look to Cash Waqfs as an Indicator of Ottoman Financial Mentality|In spite of the fact that the waqfs have existed with the history of humankind and are helpful in all social communities, they have a different and important place in Islamic societies. The waqfs have made assistance and solidarity between individuals organized and institutionalized. Especially in Islamic societies, a great importance has been attached to waqfs. The waqfs that helped institutionalize the concept of infaq met many needs of the community. One of the Islamic states where the waqfs are very active was the Ottoman Empire. The size of the waqf services in the Ottomans expanded so much that, besides the human services, waqfs for injured birds and sick animals were established. The fact that the waqfs are so widespread in the state has made it possible to refer the Ottoman Empire as a waqf civilization. One of the waqf types operating in the Ottoman Empire was the cash waqfs (CWs) which had cash money as capital. The CWs operated its capital with various Islamic finance methods. Revenues from the operating money were used in the direction of waqf purpose. The CWs provided the vital necessities of the society such as education and religion in the period they were active in the Ottoman Empire. Another function of these waqfs was to operate as a micro-credit mechanism. Through these waqfs, the surplus and the accumulated savings in the hands of the asset owners were made available to merchants, farmers, craftsmen, and artisans. Hence, these waqfs have served as resource transfer channels as well as functioning as a charity in the society. The main goal of CWs, which is the pioneer of modern Islamic financial institutions, is different from the goal of Islamic interest-free financial institutions. The CWs did not transfer the profits they got to the waqf founder or owner. The income obtained was spent to fulfill the charitable services. Therefore, these institutions created an altruistic finance model operating within the borders of Islamic prohibitions and orders. This model has its own principles. In our study, the financial mentality of the Ottoman society in the context of the CWs and how this mentality shaped the CWs will be discussed. The basic principles of this mentality and model will be emphasized.
Z12|Halal recreation potential in Indonesia in improving tourists and the global economy|This study confirms that halal recreation is one form of the tourism industry that has contributed to the growth in the number of tourists and the national economy, even contributing to the improvement of the world economy, with evidence that Indonesia has topped the Mastercard-Crescent Muslim Global Travel Index (GMTI) 2019 together with Malaysia. With a phenomenological approach, this study concluded that halal recreation in Indonesia has an important role in increasing the number of tourists and the global economy.
Z12|Sex and the Mission: The Conflicting Effects of Early Christian Investments on the HIV Epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa|This article investigates the long-term historical impact of missionary activity on the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. On the one hand, missionaries were the first to invest in modern medicine in a number of countries. On the other hand, the Christian influence on norms may have affected sexual beliefs and behaviors. We built a new geocoded dataset locating Protestant and Catholic missions in the early 20th century, as well as their health investments. We show that missionary presence has conflicting effects on HIV today. Regions close to historical mission stations exhibit higher HIV prevalence. This higher prevalence is robust to multiple specifications accounting for urbanization. Less knowledge about condom use is a likely channel. Moreover, among regions historically close to missionary settlements, proximity to a mission with a health investment is associated with lower HIV prevalence. Safer sexual behaviors around missions with health investments are a possible explanatory channel.
Z12|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent’s dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the longterm economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favourable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification|No abstract is available for this item.
Z12|Natural Shocks and Marriage Markets: Evolution of Mehr and Dowry in Muslim Marriages|We examine how mehr, a conditional payment from husbands to wives in the event of divorce, and dowry, a transfer from bride families to grooms at the time of marriage, have evolved through natural shocks. We develop a model of marriage market in which dowry acts as a groom price, whereas mehr serves to deter inefficient divorces. Our comparative statics results show that the value of mehr is increasing (decreasing) in shocks that raise (lower) income while the effect of such shocks on dowry is ambiguous; even if dowry increases (decreases), the magnitude will be smaller than the corresponding increase (decrease) in mehr. We then exploit several natural experiments in Bangladesh, that include the Green Revolution around the 1960s, the Independence War in 1971 and the famine of 1974, to explain fluctuations in the value of mehr and dowry observed in Muslim marriages. Using two household survey datasets in Bangladesh, we find support for our theoretical predictions. To rule out alternative explanations, in particular the effect of legal changes, we exploit another natural experiment from the Indian state of West Bengal that experienced the same natural shocks, but not any of the legal shocks affecting Bangladesh. These results demonstrate that natural shocks may influence the evolution of social institutions.
Z12|Fifty Years a-Growing: Economic History and Demography in the ESR|This paper surveys publications in the fields of economic history and demography in the ESR since 1969. Numbering sixty in all, they cover a broad chronological and thematic range. Some of these papers never attracted much notice, but stand as useful sources for future historians. A few have become classics.
Z12|The Smithian Market of Religions and its Legacy: Another Great Schism between Economics and Sociology?|Adam Smith (1776) is the first to introduce religions into a market. Our article studies Smith’s neglected contribution to secularization theories and sociological market of religions then distinguishes it from his contribution to the economic market of religions. The objective of this article is to show that sociology and economics of religion both rely on Smith. Our issue analyzes if the markets of religions in the two disciplines evolve contradictory or complementary. Our results show an interdisciplinary dissemination of Smith’s ideas between sociology and economics of religion, a (unknown/neglected) Smithian background for sociology of religion and a demand-side market of religions in sociology. We demonstrate that there is no opposition between the two disciplines, but a methodological difference between demand and supply mechanisms. Our historical work remarks a methodological schism in the markets of religion with the introduction of Becker’s rational choice into sociology. We trace a historical tree to distinguish the demand mechanism (Marx, Durkheim, Weber and traditional sociological market) from the supply mechanism (Tocqueville, Blau and Homans, Becker, and rational choice theory in sociology and economics of religion) in the evolution of Smith’s market.
Z12|Can religious institutions promote sustainable behavior? Field experimental evidence on donations towards a carbon-offsetting fund|We conduct a field experiment with the visitors of the German Catholic Convention in Münster, Germany. We aim at investigating the effect of the announced attitude of a Catholic institution concerning climate protection efforts, of people's experimentally induced religiosity (using a priming intervention) and of the corresponding interaction on people's willingness to donate to a carbon-offsetting fund. Our results suggest that the supporting signal by the Catholic institution substantially increases donations by about 56 %. We observe neither a direct effect of the induced religiosity nor an interaction with the institution's signal. Our results thus indicate that religious authorities can promote sustainable behavior. As we observe no evidence that the signalmainly influences particularly religious people, we further conclude that religious institutions may serve as more general authorities when it comes to sustainable behavior rather than solely as leaders of those aiming to follow religious prescripts.
Z12|"""And forgive US our debts"": Do Christian moralities influence over-indebtedness of individuals?"|This paper analyses whether Christian moralities and rules formed differently by Catholics and Protestants impact the likelihood of households to become overindebted. We find that over-indebtedness is lower in regions in which Catholics outweigh Protestants, indicating that Catholics' forgiveness culture and a stricter enforcement of rules by Protestants serve as explanations for our results. Our results provide evidence that religion affects the financial situations of individuals and show that even 500 years after the split between Catholics and Protestants, the differences in the mind-sets of both denominations play an important role for situations of severe financial conditions.
Z12|Afterlives: Testimonies of Irish Catholic mothers on infant death and the fate of the unbaptised|Children growing up in the Ireland of the 1950s will have a clear remembrance of a metaphysical space or place known as Limbo. For Catholics, though not Irish Protestants, this formed part of a spiritual cosmos which viewed Heaven and Hell as opposite poles, with Purgatory and Limbo occupying rather vaguely defined intermediate positions. Fast forward to the present day and hardly any of those born in the new millennium will have the slightest notion of what Limbo was (or is). Yet for generations of families, going back to the dawn of Christianity, there was the fear that failing to baptise an infant before death meant that the infant was condemned either to Hell or to a shadowy existence in a place labelled Limbo. Thus the belief, and associated practices such as the prohibition on burying unbaptised bodies in consecrated ground, is one that is replete with emotional, social, theological and gender implications. This study looks at how Irish mothers look back on these beliefs and their own experiences of Limbo, baptism, churching and the disposal of unbaptised babies. It wonders how and why a deep tradition within the Christian world, and Irish society more particularly, should disappear so quickly and so completely.
Z12|Religiosity: Identifying the effect of pluralism|Economists and sociologists have long disagreed over the effect of pluralism on religiosity, the question of whether the number religions in a society lessens or heightens people's beliefs and participation. The controversy stems from the omission of religion's role in legitimizing government, which has significantly biased previous estimates. We use a novel identification strategy that exploits the variation among countries in their proximity (cost of travel) to centers of universal religions of the world (Buddhism, Christianity, Islam). Whereas the results of OLS analysis tentatively suggest a negative association between pluralism and religiosity, estimates from the method of instrumental variables reveal that the direct effect of pluralism is positive. Our results support the argument that enhanced competition in the religion market would increase religiosity by offering believers a greater variety and quality of choices.
Z12|A Game of the Throne of Saint Peter|In the Roman Catholic Church, the pope is elected by the (cardinal) electors through “scrutiny,” where each elector casts an anonymous nomination. Using historical documents, we argue that a guiding principle for the church has been the protection of electors from the temptation to defy God through dishonest nomination. Based on axiomatic analysis involving this principle, we recommend that the church overturn the changes of Pope Pius XII (1945) to reinstate the scrutiny of Pope Gregory XV (1621), and argue that randomization in the case of deadlock merits consideration.
Z12|Religion and the European Union|We review a recent literature on cultural differences across euro member states.We point out that this literature fails to address cultural differences between Protestants and Catholics, which are likely a major underlying reason for cross-country differences. We argue that confessional culture explains why Catholic countries tend to have weaker institutions but are more open to economic and political integration. EU policies after the economic crisis looked clumsy and failed to address all concerns, but were viable, caused only a manageable amount of serious backlash and tied in well with Europe’s cultural diversity, also providing scope for learning and adaption.
Z12|Religion, Division of Labor, and Conflict: Anti-semitism in Germany over 600 Years|We study the role of economic incentives in shaping the coexistence of Jews, Catholics, and Protestants, using novel data from Germany for 1,000+ cities. The Catholic usury ban and higher literacy rates gave Jews a specific advantage in the moneylending sector. Following the Protestant Reformation (1517), the Jews lost these advantages in regions that became Protestant. We show (i) a change in the geography of anti-Semitism with persecutions of Jews and anti-Jewish publications becoming more common in Protestant areas relative to Catholic areas; (ii) a more pronounced change in cities where Jews had already established themselves as moneylenders. These findings are consistent with the interpretation that, following the Protestant Reformation, Jews living in Protestant regions were exposed to competition with the Christian majority, especially in moneylending, leading to an increase in anti-Semitism.
Z12|Communism as the Unhappy Coming|We show that Eastern Orthodox believers are less happy compared to those of Catholic and Protestant faith using data covering more than 100 countries around the world. Consistent with the happiness results, we also find that relative to Catholics, Protestants and non-believers, those of Eastern Orthodox religion have less social capital and prefer old ideas and safe jobs. In addition, Orthodoxy is associated with left-leaning political preferences and stronger support for government involvement in the economy. Compared to non-believers and Orthodox adherents, Catholics and Protestants are less likely to agree that government ownership is a good thing, and Protestants are less likely to agree that getting rich can only happen at the expense of others. These differences in life satisfaction and other attitudes and values persisted despite the fact that communist elites sought to eradicate church-going in Eastern Europe, since communists maintained many aspects of Orthodox theology which were useful for the advancement of the communist doctrine. The findings are consistent with Berdyaev's (1933, 1937) hypothesis of communism as a successor of Orthodoxy.
Z12|Islamic constitutions and religious minorities|This study examines the effect of formal institutions, specifically constitutional provi-sions, on minority discrimination in Muslim societies. We hypothesize that those Muslim countries in which (political) Islam constitutes an important constraint in the legislative process experience more discrimination against minorities than other (Muslim) coun-tries. In other words, as Islam becomes a constitutionally prescribed source of legisla-tion in Muslim societies, it is expected that subsequent laws will be more likely in viola-tion of basic rights of minorities. In our empirical analysis, we find that where the su-premacy of Islam and Shari’a is constitutionally entrenched, religious minorities are in-deed likely to face more discrimination. Instrumental variable regressions support our interpretation that this result reflects a causal effect of constitutional rules on social out-comes. We find no evidence that Islam encourages minority discrimination if it is not constitutionalized. Our results confirm the grave dangers entailed in the institutionaliza-tion of supreme values.
Z12|Religion and Terrorism: Evidence from Ramadan Fasting|We study the effect of religion and intense religious experiences on terrorism by focusing on one of the five pillars of Islam: Ramadan fasting. For identification, we exploit two facts: First, daily fasting from dawn to sunset during Ramadan is considered mandatory for most Muslims. Second, the Islamic calendar is not synchronized with the solar cycle. We find a robust negative effect of more intense Ramadan fasting on terrorist events within districts and country-years in predominantly Muslim countries. This effect seems to operate partly through decreases in public support for terrorism and the operational capabilities of terrorist groups.
Z12|Religion and the European Union|We review a recent literature on cultural differences across euro member states. We point out that this literature fails to address cultural differences between Protestants and Catholics, which are likely a major underlying reason for cross-country differences. We argue that confessional culture explains why Catholic countries tend to have weaker institutions but are more open to economic and political integration. EU policies after the economic crisis looked clumsy and failed to address all concerns, but were viable, caused only a manageable amount of serious backlash and tied in well with Europe’s cultural diversity, also providing scope for learning and adaption.
Z12|Asymmetric Business-Cycle Risk and Social Insurance|This paper studies the business-cycle variation in higher-order (labor) income risk—that is, risks that are captured by moments higher than the variance. We examine the extent to which such risks can be smoothed within households or with government social insurance and tax policies. We use panel data from three countries that differ in many aspects relevant for our analysis: the United States, Germany, and Sweden. Our analysis has three main results. First, using individual gross income, we document that skewness is procyclical and dispersion (variance) is flat and acyclical in Germany and Sweden, as was previously documented for the United States. The same patterns hold true for groups defined by education, gender, public- versus private-sector jobs, among others. Second, household-level income displays cyclical patterns that are very similar to individual income, indicating that within-household smoothing is not very effective at mitigating business cycle fluctuations in skewness. Third, government tax and transfer programs blunt some of the largest declines in incomes, reducing procyclical fluctuations in skewness, especially in Germany and Sweden. The resulting welfare gain—through the lens of a structural model—amounts to 1.3% in consumption-equivalent terms for Sweden (for which we are able to perform this calculation). However, the remaining risk (in household disposable income) is still substantial: households are willing to pay 4.6% of their consumption to completely eliminate procyclical fluctuations in skewness.
Z12|Religiosity and Terrorism: Evidence from Ramadan Fasting|This study examines the effect of religiosity on terrorism by focusing on one of the five pillars of Islam: Ramadan fasting. For identification, we exploit two facts: First, daily fasting from dawn to sunset during Ramadan is considered mandatory for most Muslims. Second, the Islamic calendar is not synchronized with the solar cycle. We find a robust negative effect of more intense Ramadan fasting on terrorist events within districts and country-years in predominantly Muslim countries. We argue that this effect partly operates through a decrease in public support for terrorism, which in turn reduces the operational capabilities of terrorist groups.
Z12|Diasporas, Diversity, and Economic Activity: Evidence from 18th-century Berlin|Diversity may either increase economic activity by utilizing complementarities in production or lead to costly conflict over resources. Using citydistrict panel data from 18th-century Berlin, a major center of refuge for persecuted minorities in early modern Europe, we analyze the relationship between changes in diversity and economic activity. Prussian rulers specifically invited groups of skilled immigrants, such as Jews, Huguenots, and Bohemians, to settle in Berlin’s newly-developed city quarters. We find that the resulting ethnic diversity fosters textile production in a much broader range of products than individual ethnicities, arguably reflecting complementarities between groups.Keywords: Ethnic Diversity, Minorities, Huguenots, Jews, Productivity JEL Classification: N33, J61, Z12, O33
Z12|Physiological Constraints and Comparative Economic Development|"It is a well known fact that economic development and distance to the equator are positively correlated variables in the world today. It is perhaps less well known that as recently as 1500 C.E. it was the other way around. The present paper provides a theory of why the ""latitude gradient"" seemingly changed sign in the course of the last half millennium. In particular, we develop a dynamic model of economic and physiological development in which households decide upon the number and nutrition of their offspring. In this setting we demonstrate that relatively high metabolic costs of fertility, which may have emerged due to positive selection towards greater cold tolerance in locations away from the equator, would work to sti fle economic development during pre-industrial times, yet allow for an early onset of sustained growth. As a result, the theory suggests a reversal of fortune whereby economic activity gradually shifts away from the equator in the process of long-term economic development."
Z12|Religiosity and Terrorism: Evidence from Ramadan Fasting|This study examines the effect of religiosity on terrorism by focusing on one of the five pillars of Islam: Ramadan fasting. For identification, we exploit two facts: First, daily fasting from dawn to sunset during Ramadan is considered mandatory for most Muslims. Second, the Islamic calendar is not synchronized with the solar cycle. We find a robust negative effect of more intense Ramadan fasting on terrorist events within districts and country-years in predominantly Muslim countries. We argue that this effect partly operates through a decrease in public support for terrorism, which in turn reduces the operational capabilities of terrorist groups.
Z12|Pre-colonial Religious Institutions and Development: Evidence through a Military Coup|This paper offers a novel illustration of the political economy of religion and development by empirically examining the impact of religious shrines on development. Compiling a unique database covering the universe of holy Muslim shrines across Pakistani Punjab, we show that historically embedded religious power shapes persistent differences in literacy. Using the 1977 military take-over as a universal shock, our difference-in-differences analysis suggests that areas with a greater concentration of shrines recognized by the British colonial administration experienced a substantially retarded growth in literacy. We argue that this literacy disadvantage in shrine-dominated regions is largely attributable to a growingly prominent role of shrine elites in electoral politics and their direct control over allocation of public goods since the 1977 military coup. Our analysis suggests that shrines in these regions represent the confluence of three forces—religion, land and politics —that together constitute a powerful structural inequality with potentially adverse consequences for development.
Z12|The Economics of Missionary Expansion: Evidence from Africa and Implications for Development|One of the most powerful cultural transformations in modern history has been the dramatic expansion of Christianity outside Europe. Recent, yet extensive, literature uses Christian missions established during colonial times as a source of exogenous variation to study the long-term effects of religion, human capital and culture in Africa, the Americas and Asia. We argue that the endogeneity of missionary expansion may be underestimated, thus questioning the link between missions and economic development. Using annual panel data on missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we show that: (i) locational decisions were driven by economic factors, as missionaries went to healthier, safer, and more accessible and developed areas, privileging the best locations first; (ii) these factors may spuriously explain why locations with past missions are more developed today, especially as most studies rely on historical mission atlases that tend to only report the best mission locations. Our study identifies factors behind the spatial diffusion of religion. It also highlights the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification.
Z12|“From Each according to Ability; To Each according to Needs” Origin, Meaning, and Development of Socialist Slogans|There are three slogans in the history of Socialism that are very close in wording, namely, the famous Cabet-Blanc-Marx slogan: From each according to his ability; To each according to his needs; the earlier Saint-Simon–Pecqueur slogan: To each according to his ability; To each according to his works; and the later slogan in Stalin’s 1936 Soviet Constitution: From each according to his ability; To each according to his work. We trace the earliest occurrences of these slogans and their biblical sources and we show how the progression from one slogan to the next casts light on the development of early socialist thought.
Z12|Piero Sraffa and the project to publish Saint-Simon’s works|There are three slogans in the history of Socialism that are very close in wording, namely, the famous Cabet-Blanc-Marx slogan: From each according to his ability; To each according to his needs; the earlier Saint-Simon–Pecqueur slogan: To each according to his ability; To each according to his works; and the later slogan in Stalin’s 1936 Soviet Constitution: From each according to his ability; To each according to his work. We trace the earliest occurrences of these slogans and their biblical sources and we show how the progression from one slogan to the next casts light on the development of early socialist thought.
Z12|Dissecting the act of god: an exploration of the effect of religiosity on economic activity|This research explores whether religiosity has a persistent effect on economic outcomes. We follow a three-step analysis. First, we use a sample of migrants in the United States to establish that religiosity in the country of origin has a lasting effect on the religiosity of migrants. Second, by exploiting variation in the inherited component of religiosity of migrants and controlling only for a baseline set of controls, we uncover a causal link between several aspects of religiosity and income level. The empirical findings of the second step suggest that i) church attendance has a positive impact on income; and ii) stronger faith is associated with a higher income. Finally, we augment the set of controls included in the measure of inherited religiosity in order to capture the effects of social capital, education, and of traits conducive to income growth. When controlling for social capital, the effect of religious attendance on economic outcomes vanishes, and when controlling for the presence of traits conducive to growth, the effect of intensity of faith vanishes as well. We therefore conclude that when properly accounting for unobservables, religiosity does not affect per capita income.
Z12|Moral Incentives in Credit Card Debt Repayment: Evidence from a Field Experiment|We study the role of morality in debt repayment, using an experiment with the credit card customers of a large Islamic bank in Indonesia. In our main treatment, clients receive a text message stating that “non-repayment of debts by someone who is able to repay is an injustice.” This moral appeal decreases the share of delinquent customers by 4.4 percentage points from a baseline of 66 percent, and reduces default among the customers with the highest ex-ante credit risk. Additional treatments help benchmark the effects against those of direct financial incentives, understand the underlying mechanisms, and rule out competing explanations, such as reminder effects, priming religion, signaling the lender's commitment to debt collection, and provision of new information.
Z12|Anti-Muslim Discrimination in France: Evidence from a Field Experiment|Relying on a correspondence study conducted in France before the 2015 attacks, this paper compares the callback rates of immigrants of Muslim and Christian culture who originate from the same country and whose religiosity varies from non-religious to religious. Based on responses to over 6,200 job ads, the results reveal an insignificant disadvantage for Muslims when they are not religious. However, Muslims lose further ground when they are religious, while the reverse occurs for Christians. Consequently, religious Muslims must submit twice as many applications as religious Christians before being called back by the recruiters. A follow-up survey confirms that the signal used to convey fictitious applicants' religiosity is not only viewed as relevant but that it is also correctly interpreted by employers.
Z12|The Evolution of Catholic-Protestant Labour Market Inequality in Northern Ireland, 1983-2014|Ethnic and religious differentials in labour market outcomes within many countries have been remarkably persistent. Yet one very well-known differential â€“ the Catholic/Protestant unemployment differential in Northern Ireland â€“ has largely (although not completely) disappeared. This paper charts its decline since the mid-1980s and examines potential explanations using Census data from 1991, 2001 and 2011 together with annual survey data. These data span the ending of The Troubles, the signing of the Good Friday Agreement, the introduction of fair employment legislation, growth in hidden unemployment, and major structural changes in Northern Ireland. We assess the relative contributions of these changes.
Z12|The effect of being Protestant on entrepreneurial choice|This brief research note identifies a causal effect of being Protestant on entrepreneurial choice.
Z12|Economic Freedom and Religion: An Empirical Investigation|There has been much study of the consequences of economic freedom but, outside of the role of political institutions, there has been little study of the determinants of economic freedom. We investigate whether religion affects economic freedom. Our cross-sectional dataset includes 137 countries averaged over the period 2001-2010. Simple correlations show that Protestantism is associated with economic freedom, Islam is not, with Catholicism in between. The Protestant ethic requires economic freedom. Our empirical estimates, which include religiosity, political institutions, and other explanatory variables, confirm that Protestantism is most conducive to economic freedom.
Z12|Social Cohesion, Religious Beliefs, and the Effect of Protestantism on Suicide|In an economic theory of suicide, we model social cohesion of the religious community and religious beliefs about afterlife as two mechanisms by which Protestantism increases suicide propensity. We build a unique microregional data set of 452 Prussian counties for 1816 to 1821 and 1869 to 1871, when religiousness was still pervasive. Exploiting the concentric dispersion of Protestantism around Wittenberg, our instrumental variable model finds that Protestantism had a substantial positive effect on suicide. Results are corroborated in first-difference models. Tests relating to the two mechanisms based on historical church attendance data and modern suicide data suggest that the sociological channel plays the more important role.
Z12|Randomizing Religion: The Impact of Protestant Evangelism on Economic Outcomes|To test the causal impact of religiosity, we conducted a randomized evaluation of an evangelical Protestant Christian values and theology education program that consisted of 15 weekly half-hour sessions. We analyze outcomes for 6,276 ultra-poor Filipino households six months after the program ended. We find significant increases in religiosity and income, no significant changes in total labor supply, assets, consumption, food security, or life satisfaction, and a significant decrease in perceived relative economic status. Exploratory analysis suggests the program may have improved hygienic practices and increased household discord, and that the income treatment effect may operate through increasing grit.
Z12|Political campaigns and church contributions|We combine a new dataset of weekly Catholic church donations with a new dataset of presidential-election campaign stops to explore the impact of stops on donations. We find that stops increase donations, with a campaign stop generating 2 percent more donations in the following week. Our results suggest that this effect is of short duration. Using a well-known list of politically-motivated words, we find that this effect does not appear to vary based on the political language used by the parish. Our results underscore the contemporary political dimension of US religiosity and the elemental relationship between religious and political events more generally.
Z12|Women, Rails and Telegraphs: An Empirical Study of Information Diffusion and Collective Action|How do social interactions shape collective action, and how are they mediated by the availability of networked information technologies? To answer these questions, we study the Temperance Crusade, one of the earliest instances of organized political mobilization by women in the U.S. This wave of protest activity against liquor dealers spread between the winter of 1873 and the summer of 1874, covering more than 800 towns in 29 states. We first provide causal evidence of social interactions driving the diffusion of the protest wave, and estimate the roles played by information traveling along railroad and telegraph networks. We do this by relying on exogenous variation in the rail network links generated by railroad worker strikes and railroad accidents. We also develop an event-study methodology to estimate the complementarity between rail and telegraph networks in driving the spread of the Crusade. We find that railroad and telegraph-mediated information about neighboring protest activity were main drivers of the diffusion of the protest movement. We also find strong complementarities between both networks. Using variation in the types of protest activities of neighboring towns and in the aggregate patterns of the diffusion process, we also find suggestive evidence of social learning as a key mechanism behind the effect of information on protest adoption.
Z12|Death, Trauma and God: The Effect of Military Deployments on Religiosity|Learning to cope with man’s mortality is central to the teachings of the world’s major religions. However, very little is known about the impact of life-and-death trauma on religiosity. This study exploits a natural experiment in military deployments to estimate the causal effect of traumatic shocks on religiosity. We find that combat assignment is associated with a substantial increase in the probability that a serviceman subsequently attends religious services regularly and engages in private prayer. Combat-induced increases in religiosity are largest for enlisted servicemen, those under age 25, and servicemen wounded in combat. The physical and psychological burdens of war, as well as the presence of military chaplains in combat zones, emerge as possible mechanisms.
Z12|The Institutional Foundations of Religious Politics: Evidence from Indonesia|Why do religious politics thrive in some societies but not others? This paper explores the institutional foundations of this process in Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim democracy. We show that a major Islamic institution, the waqf, fostered the entrenchment of political Islam at a critical historical juncture. In the early 1960s, rural elites transferred large amounts of land into waqf—a type of inalienable charitable trust—to avoid expropriation by the government as part of a major land reform effort. Although the land reform was later undone, the waqf properties remained. We show that greater intensity of the planned reform led to more prevalent waqf land and Islamic institutions endowed as such, including religious schools, which are strongholds of the Islamist movement. We identify lasting effects of the reform on electoral support for Islamist parties, preferences for religious candidates, and the adoption of Islamic legal regulations (sharia). Overall, the land reform contributed to the resilience and eventual rise of political Islam by helping to spread religious institutions, thereby solidifying the alliance between local elites and Islamist groups. These findings shed new light on how religious institutions may shape politics in modern democracies.
Z12|Gender Economics and Islam: Case of Marital Law in Pakistan|The paper discusses the evolution of Muslim identity in subcontinent India to provide guidelines for dealing with this identity in streamlining such national and international governance strategies that accommodate and facilitate local anthropology for building up a tolerant global society.
Z12|Pengaruh Zakat Harta Untuk Kesejahteraan Ekonomi Masyarakat Petani di Wilayah Bandung<BR>[The Influence of Zakah on Property for Economic Welfare of Peasant Community in Bandung Area]|Abstract Zakat Mal or often referred to as zakat property is zakat owned by individuals with terms and conditions that have been set syarak. All the goods (malls) that grow and develop must be issued zakatnya to wander in the world of meterialis. The obligation of zakat is charged to the muzzaki belonging to the rich, well-off in fulfilling the necessities of life, and the charity is intended for the poor, the poor, the amil, the mu'allaaf, the free-willed servant, the debt-ridden person who is in sabilillah , and ibn Sabil. Each zakat maal issued there is a ratio and haulnya. Nisbah is the quantity level of wealth and haul is a certain time limit, for the property to be disposed of zakat. This writing aims to determine the effect of zakat mall for the economic welfare of the community within DKM Asy-Syuhada, after an interview with the zakat proctor chairman that zakat mall does not run with routine it is seen from the results of zakat mall paid last year in 2013 did not continue until this year . Zakat This treasure comes from the wealth derived from agricultural business which is classified as a relatively low income. Enterprises in this farm less profitable to be collected in economic wealth, because many are consumed by themselves. Or if traded or sold bring low income figures.
Z12|Pengaruh Penerimaan Zakat Profesi Terhadap Perkembangan Ekonomi Mustahik di Kabupaten Cianjur Jawa Barat<BR>[The Influence of Profession Zakah Acceptance on Economy of Mustahik in Cianjur Regency, West Java]|Abstract Zakat profession known as Zakah rawatib al-muwazhaffin (zakat salary clerk) or zakah kasb al-'amal wa al-mihan al-hurray (zakat work and private profession) zakat which must be issued for every Muslim who can not on time monthly or annual. This writing aims to determine the effect of zakat profession to the economic side of mustahik zakat in DKM great environment Cianjur, research method used is interview with the chairman of DKM great cianjur and supported by the literature in accordance with the contents of the study. From the interview result, it is known that the result of zakat profession acceptance in DKM agung raya Cianjur does not have a direct impact on the economic development of mustahik zakat, because zakat professions obtained amount is not too big and can only be exploited for a short time only. As well as data collection that is not evenly distributed so that the rights that should be the recipient of zakat become unfulfilled. From the calculation if the price of rice is Rp 7.000 / kg (relative price) then nisab zakat profession is 520 multiplied 4000 to Rp 3.640.000. Nisab zakat income / profession can also take a reference to nisab zakat property of 85 grams of gold. .
Z12|Pengumpulan Zakat Fitrah Dan Efek Pemerataan Ekonomi Untuk Masyarakat di Kota Bandung (Kasus di Kecamatan Cibiru Bandung Timur)<BR>[Collection of Zakat Fitrah and Effects of Economic Equity For Communities in Bandung (Case in District Cibiru East Bandung)]|Economic equity has always been the focus of public administration. One potential to improve the economy of the community is zakat. Zakat fitrah or known as zakat bodies, zakat ru'us or shodaqoh fitrah is the obligatory zakat issued for every Muslim who can in the month of Ramadan and month of Shawwal. This writing aims to determine the effect of zakat fitrah to the economic side of mustahik zakat in the environment of DKM At-Tarbiyatul Islamiyah, research method used is an interview with the chairman of DKM At-Tarbiyatul Islamiyah and supported by the literature in accordance with the contents of the study. From the results of the interview, it is known that the result of zakat fitrah acceptance in DKM At-Tarbiyatul Islamiyah does not have a direct impact on the economic development of mustahik zakat, because zakat fitrah obtained amount is not too large and can only be exploited for a short time only.
Z12|Africa on the maps of global values. Comparative analyses, based on recent World Values Survey data|This paper attempts to close a gap in the recent literature on African economic development: the place of Africa on the maps of global economic, political and social values. We develop new comparable indices of global value development from the latest set of World Values Survey data and determine Africa’s place on a new factor analytical index of Global Civil Society. Our statistical calculations were performed by the routine and standard SPSS statistical program (SPSS XXIV), available at many academic research centers around the world and relied on the so-called oblique rotation of the factors, underlying the correlation matrix. The SPSS routine chosen in this context was the so-called promax rotation of factors, which in many ways must be considered to be the best suited rotation of factors in the context of our research. Our analysis of the World Values Survey data derived the following factor analytical scales, well compatible with a large social scientific literature: 1. The non-violent and law-abiding society 2. Democracy movement 3. Climate of personal non-violence 4. Trust in institutions 5. Happiness, good health 6. No redistributive religious fundamentalism 7. Accepting the market 8. Feminism 9. Involvement in politics 10. Optimism and engagement 11. No welfare mentality, acceptancy of the Calvinist work ethics The spread in the performance of African countries with complete data is really amazing. While we are especially hopeful about the development of future democracy in Ghana, our article suggests pessimistic tendencies for Egypt and Algeria, and especially for Africa’s leading economy, South Africa. High Human Inequality, as measured by the UNDP’s Human Development Report’s Index of Human Inequality, further impairs the development of Human Security. One can maintain that the certain recent optimism, corresponding to economic and human rights data, emerging from Africa, is reflected also in our Index of the Development of Civil Society. There is at least some hope for Africa, on this front, too. JEL Classification Numbers: C43, F5, Z12, D73
Z12|İnsani Finans ve Değerler<BR>[Humanitarian Finance and Values]|Finans sektörü veyahut finansal sistem denildiğinde çoğu insanın aklına bankalar gelmektedir. İnsanların birikimlerini değerlendirmek için kullandıkları bankalar, bu birikimleri ihtiyacı olanlara belirli bir faiz yahut kâr payı ile tahsis edip bir nevi fon akışı sağlamaktadır. Bu sistemde sadece bankalar yoktur. Finansal Kiralama Şirketleri, faktoring ve finansman şirketleri de finansal sistem içerisinde yer alan diğer kurumlardır. Fakat tüm bu kurumların temel işlevleri aynı temel prensip ile çalışmaktadır. Bu temel ilke, fazla birikimleri toplamak, toplanan birikimleri ihtiyacı olanlara kullandırmak, fazla birikimleri olanlara ödenen faiz veya kâr payı ile bu birikimleri kullananlardan alınan faiz veya kâr payı arasındaki farktan kâr elde etmeye dayanmaktadır. Her ne kadar bankacılık finansal sistemin temelini oluşturuyor olsa da bankacılık dışı finansal sektör de tüm dünyada hızlı bir şekilde gelişmektedir. Görevi sadece toplanan fonları değerlendirmek ve ihtiyacı olanlara borç olarak çeşitli yol ve yöntemler ile vermek olan finansal sistem sadece finans boyutu ile sınırlı kalmamaktadır. Dünyada finansal sektörün boyutu ve etkisi yüksek oranlara ulaşmıştır. Özellikle sermaye hareketleri finansal sisteme entegre olmuş gelişmekte olan ülkeleri fazlasıyla etkilemekte ve ekonomik olarak büyümeyi teşvik edici yönleri olduğu gibi dışa açıklık dış finansal operasyonlara da açıklığı beraberinde getirmektedir. Ülke içerisindeki enflasyon seviyesi, faiz oranı ve döviz kuru, küresel finansal sistemdeki değişikliklere, sermaye hareketlerine veyahut ülkeye yapılan finansal operasyonlara bağlıdır. Dolayısı ile dünyada finansal sistemi yani sermayeyi elinde tutanların gücü sadece iktisadi anlamda değil aynı zamanda siyasal anlamda da yüksektir. Özellikle ülke içerisindeki siyasi seçimler iktisadi hayatla yakından ilişkiliyken sermaye sahiplerinin ekonomik hayata rahatlıkla müdahale edecek bir güce ulaşmaları ahlaki sorunlar kadar egemenlik sorunlarını ortaya çıkarmıştır. Niceliksel büyümeler beraberinde niteliksel düzenlemeleri ve kontrolü getirmediği için dünyada yaşanan 2008 Küresel Finans Krizi ve 2001 yılında Türkiye’de yaşadığımız finansal kriz gibi kontrolün tamamen piyasaya bırakılmasının yol açtığı sadece finansal sektörle sınırlı kalmayarak tüm sektörleri içerisine alan iktisadi ve sosyal hayata da olumsuz etkilerini gördüğümüz krizler ile karşılaşmak kaçınılmaz olmuştur.
Z12|The return of religious Antisemitism? The evidence from World Values Survey data|1) Background: This paper addresses the return of religious Antisemitism by a multivariate analysis of global opinion data from 28 countries. 2) Methods: For the lack of any available alternative we used the World Values Survey (WVS) Antisemitism study item: rejection of Jewish neighbors. It is closely correlated with the recent ADL-100 Index of Antisemitism for more than 100 countries. To test the combined effects of religion and background variables like gender, age, education, income and life satisfaction on Antisemitism, we applied the full range of multivariate analysis including promax factor analysis and multiple OLS regression. 3) Results: Although religion as such still seems to be connected with the phenomenon of Antisemitism, intervening variables such as restrictive attitudes on gender and the religion-state relationship play an important role. Western Evangelical and Oriental Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism are performing badly on this account, and there is also a clear global North-South divide for these phenomena. 4) Conclusions: Challenging patriarchic gender ideologies and fundamentalist conceptions of the relationship between religion and state, which are important drivers of Antisemitism, will be an important task in the future. Multiculturalism must be aware of prejudice, patriarchy and religious fundamentalism in the global South.
Z12|Sharia hotels in Indonesia: Concept and potential analysis|This article describes the concept and analysis of potential sharia hotels in Indonesia. Using a phenomenological approach, this study concludes that sharia hotels have become part of the halal tourism industry and the need for Muslim communities in Indonesia in the future.
Z12|A treatise on socioeconomic roles of waqf|Promotion of socioeconomic security peaks as state policy drive especially in developing and emerging economies. Waqf as a socioeconomic tool emphatically forms part of the ethical values of Islam and is seen as a primary vehicle for financing Islam as a society. This paper analyses the socioeconomic roles that Waqf institution in tackling social security challenges for upliftment of the Muslim Ummah. The paper employs a non-experimental qualitative research methodology based on deductive method of analysis of jurisprudential and literature based-evidences. A socioeconomic framework was intuitively developed by the paper for logical analysis. It was found that socioeconomically, Waqf institutions across the Islamic world have played immeasurable roles in the areas of provision of social and economic infrastructures, lessening the burden of tax and budget deficits, closing the short fall in tax revenues, tackling poverty and income inequality, boosting economic growth, promoting independent provision of public goods and development of active civil society bonded by spirit of compassion and communalism as against that apathy and individualism. The paper strongly urges the Muslim Ummah to reestablish and reassert the roles Waqf institutions to free itself from socioeconomic misadventures.
Z12|Waqf Resource Mobilization for Poverty Alleviation Based on Maqasid Framework|This study adopts the framework practiced by various multilateral development banks (MDBs), particularly International Development Association (IDA), to explore the potential establishment of a global Waqf fund, as this framework is proven effective. The framework revolves around the IDA operations with replenishments, allocation of funds by implementing specific formulas and the determination approach, which is mainly to monitor effectiveness of the earlier processes. The study proposes to integrate Islamic vision of development based on Maqasid al-Shari’ah with IDA principles for the allocation of funds for a potentially global Waqf fund. The objective is to create more effective approach for raising and using resources for a global Waqf fund.
Z12|Does Religiosity Affect Multidimensional Poverty? Evidence from World Values Survey (2010-14)|Does religiosity affect multidimensional poverty? There is no simple answer to this question because there is no simple relationship between poverty and religiosity. Poverty is affected by religion in so many different ways, positively and negatively, through different routes and channels, that no plain general argument can be built. Yet, it is a fact that poverty, and its feel, is indeed affected by religion and religiosity of the people. In its influence and impact, the content of the religion as well as the practice of its followers greatly matter. It would be interesting to analyse how the content of different religions would differently affect poverty. However, before reaching that stage, even some more basic questions need to be answered that have not been studied and that could lead to improved understanding and open new avenues for further research. For example, we do not know whether the poor and non-poor are equally religious. We understand that poverty is multidimensional, that it is not only in income and wealth but also in other dimensions important for human life. In this case, what dimensions should matter? How do the patterns of deprivation across these various dimensions differ between the religious and non-religious multidimensional poor, and what impact does religiosity make on multidimensional poverty? The present paper attempts to provide a first cut answer to these questions. It also develops a new methodology by applying deprivation counting technique to analyse the issues at hand.
Z12|Russian Empire?s Policy of Acculturation for Christian Sectarians (XIX ? the Beginning of the 20th Centuries)|"This research is about features of a policy of acculturation for Christian sectarians in the territory of Orenburg region of XIX ? the beginnings of the 20th centuries. The subject of the relationship of the Orthodox Russian Empire with Christian sectarians repeatedly rose in modern scientific literature. However the situation in the huge suburban Eurasian region on the border of Europe and Asia ? the Orenburg region ? wasn't analyzed systemically. The purpose of our research ? to study a question on the basis of primary sources from the local archive. The government sought to provide stability in the Orenburg province and incorporation of the region in the structure of the Empire by means of acculturation policy. This policy concerned not only the Muslims living here but also Christian sectarians. Christian sectarianism in a mass look has appeared in the Orenburg region from the second half of the 19th century. The activity of Russian Orthodox Church in the Orenburg diocese has been directed to the identification of sectarians and ""their return to a bosom of a church"" through explanations and education. If efforts of the church didn't result in desirable results, then more drastic measures with an involvement of the Orenburg provincial administration and police were taken. As a result in the region, steady process of formal transition to Orthodoxy at a secret observance of former ceremonies was supported. The factor complicating work of the Orthodox Church with sectarians in the territory of the Orenburg province was her status of the territory in large quantities accepting immigrants among whom sectarians have been presented in a large number. The research is executed at the expense of a grant of the Russian Science Foundation (project No. 17-18-01008) in the Orenburg State Pedagogical University."
Z12|The Institutional Foundations of Religious Politics: Evidence from Indonesia|This paper explores the foundations of religious influence in politics and society. We show that an important Islamic institution fostered the entrenchment of Islamism at a critical juncture in Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim country. In the early 1960s, rural elites transferred large amounts of land into waqf —inalienable charitable trusts in Islamic law—to avoid expropriation by the state. Regions facing a greater threat of expropriation exhibit more prevalent waqf land and Islamic institutions endowed as such, including mosques and religious schools. These endowments provided conservative forces with the capital needed to promote Islamist ideology and mobilize against the secular state. We identify lasting effects on the size of the religious sector, electoral support for Islamist parties, and the adoption of local sharia laws. These effects are shaped by greater demand for religion in government but not by greater piety among the electorate. Waqf assets also impose costs on the local economy, particularly in agriculture where these endowments are associated with lower productivity. Overall, our findings shed new light on the origins and consequences of Islamism.
Z12|Institutional Transplant and Cultural Proximity: Evidence from Nineteenth-Century Prussia|The economic impact of an institutional transplant depends on the underlying cultural envi-ronment of the receiving country. This paper provides the first evidence that the positive effect of importing good institutions cancels out when the receiving territories are characterized by cultural traits in conflict with those embedded in the imported institutions. We obtain this result using county-level data from late nineteenth-century Prussia. This environment allows us to exploit both the quasi-natural experiment generated by the radical Napoleonic institutional reforms and the deeply rooted cultural heterogeneity across Prussian counties. First, using religious affiliation as a proxy of cultural commonality, we find no effect of French institutions in Protestant areas. Then, using hand-collected data on pre-Napoleonic reigns we show that kingdoms with stronger ties to French culture exhibit a more effective transplant even when controlling for institutional proximity. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that cultural compatibility between the country exporting the institution and the receiving areas is a significant determinant of a successful transplant.
Z12|Religious Pluralism and the Transmission of Religious Values through Education|We analyze the role of formal religious education in the intergenerational transmission of religious values. We first develop a model of school choice in which the demand for religious schooling is driven partly by the desire of parents to limit their children's exposure to the influences of competing religions. The model predicts that when a religious group's share of the local population grows, the fraction of that group's members whose children attend religious schools declines. In addition, it shows that if the motivation to preserve religious identity is sufficiently strong, the fraction of all children that attend a given denomination's school is an inverse u-shaped function of the denomination's market share. Finally, the model implies that the overall demand for religious schooling is an increasing function of both the local religiosity rate and the level of religious pluralism, as measured by a Herfindahl Index. Using both U.S. county-level data and individual data from ECLS-K and NELS:88, we find evidence strongly consistent with all of the model's predictions. Our findings also illustrate that failing to control for the local religiosity rate, as is common in previous studies, may lead a researcher to erroneously conclude that religious pluralism has a negative effect on participation.
Z12|Honesty toward the Holy Day|"We study the effect of religiosity, gender, and ""day of the week"", on the level of honesty by conducting under-the-cup experiment among religious and secular, female and male Jewish students. We show that the level of honesty among religious subject, males and females, increases as the day of the experiment is closer to the upcoming Saturday, the Jewish holy day. We also found that the ""Saturday effect"" does not exist among secular subjects. In addition, we found that the religious females show the highest level of honesty, especially on Thursday. Finally, we derive practical implication from our study."
Z12|Does religiosity explain economic outcomes?|Most religions in transition economies were marginalized by their former communist regimes. Today, some of these countries are experiencing a revival of religiosity, while others are prone to secularization. Religious norms affect individual decision making with respect to human capital investment, economic reforms, marital stability, employment, and other contexts. This implies that the interests of both religious and non-religious communities may differ and must be taken into account when designing and implementing economic policies, which is a challenge for policymakers.
Z12|Understanding Social Market Economy, Francesco Forte and His Interpretation|Abstract The social thought which emerges from Francesco Forte’s economic writings proves to be mainly inspired by methodological individualism, though interpreted through a peculiar “personalistic” key. We will analyze the peculiar traits of his thought and the specific contribution that Forte gave to the understanding of a specific economic theory based on the doctrine of “Ordoliberalism” or the “Freiburg School.” In our work, we will show how Forte proposes an interpretation of that doctrine, according to two of his main points of reference in economic and philosophical thought: Luigi Einaudi and Antonio Rosmini Serbati. Finally, we will present an important aspect of Forte’s work: his institutional analysis in the light of the particular civil philosophy expressed by Christian social teaching.
Z12|Exploring the Effect of Religious Piety on Corporate Governance: Evidence from Anti-takeover Defenses and Historical Religious Identification|Abstract Because religious piety induces individuals to be more honest and risk averse, it makes managers less likely to exploit shareholders, thereby mitigating the agency conflict and potentially influencing governance arrangements. We exploit the variation in religious piety across the U.S. counties and investigate the effect of religious piety on anti-takeover provisions. Our results show that religious piety substitutes for corporate governance in alleviating the agency conflict. Effective governance is less necessary for firm with strong religious piety. As a result, religious piety leads to weaker governance, as indicated by more anti-takeover defenses. We exploit historical religious piety as far back as 1952 as our instrumental variable. Religious piety from the distant past is unlikely correlated with current corporate governance directly, except through contemporaneous religious piety. Our instrumental variable analysis, which is far less vulnerable to endogeneity, corroborates the conclusion.
Z12|Theravada Buddhism and Thai Luxury Fashion Consumption|This paper reviews the Thai national character according to Hofstede’s (1991, 2001, 2017) cultural dimension theory and Komin’s (1991) nine values cluster (Psychology of the Thai people), analyses the social hierarchy of Thai consumers according to the Luxury 4P Taxonomy (Han et al., 2010), integrates the Theory of Cultural Capital (Bourdieu, 1984, 1986), and expounds the features of social class. The global luxury fashion industry has grown significantly in recent years, but much of the research has been limited to conspicuous consumption and social identity. This paper involves religious beliefs that are argued to influence luxury purchasing motives. The purpose of the paper is to develop an analytical framework to aid in understanding luxury fashion consumption in a Buddhist country such as Thailand in order to inform luxury products vendors on how to improve their marketing strategies.
Z12|Education and religious participation|Why did substantial parts of Europe abandon the institutionalized churches around 1900? Empirical studies using modern data mostly contradict the traditional view that education was a leading source of the seismic social phenomenon of secularization. We construct a unique panel dataset of advanced-school enrollment and Protestant church attendance in German cities between 1890 and 1930. Our cross-sectional estimates replicate a positive association. By contrast, in panel models where fixed effects account for time-invariant unobserved heterogeneity, education-but not income or urbanization-is negatively related to church attendance. In panel models with lagged explanatory variables, educational expansion precedes reduced church attendance, while the reverse is not true. Dynamic panel models with lagged dependent variables and instrumental-variable models using variation in school supply confirm the results. The pattern of results across school types is most consistent with a mechanism of increased critical thinking in general rather than specific knowledge of natural sciences.
Z12|Spiritual Practices and Dispositional Optimism in an Underprivileged Population|Optimism seems to foster the ability to manage adverse situations better - a finding especially relevant for disadvantaged populations. Employing a unique sample from a small underprivileged village, we study the association between spiritual practices and dispositional optimism. The village belongs to a developing country that is, by far, the most secular country in Latin America: this makes particularly interesting exploring the role of spiritual practices in this context. We find that spiritual practices are positively associated with higher optimism, measured by the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R): those who practice spirituality, score, on average, 14.4 percentage points higher on the LOT-R than those who do not. And this association seems to be especially robust in the case of the poor and less educated: those with spiritual practices score 20 percentage points higher on the LOT-R. Thus, the role that spiritual practices may play in dispositional optimism in disadvantaged populations deserves more attention
Z12|Beyond the Classroom: The Implications of School Vouchers for Church Finances|Governments have used vouchers to spend billions of dollars on private education; much of this spending has gone to religiously-affiliated schools. We explore the possibility that vouchers could create a financial windfall for religious organizations operating private schools and in doing so impact the spiritual, moral, and social fabric of communities. We use a dataset of Catholic-parish finances from Milwaukee that includes information on both Catholic schools and the parishes that run them. We show that vouchers are now a dominant source of funding for many churches; parishes in our sample running voucher-accepting schools get more revenue from vouchers than from worshipers. We also find that voucher expansion prevents church closures and mergers. Despite these results, we fail to find evidence that vouchers promote religious behavior: voucher expansion causes significant declines in church donations and church spending on non-educational religious purposes. The meteoric growth of vouchers appears to offer financial stability for congregations while at the same time diminishing their religious activities.
Z12|Why Being Wrong Can Be Right: Magical Warfare Technologies and the Persistence of False Beliefs|Across human societies, one sees many examples of deeply rooted and widely held beliefs that are almost certainly untrue. Examples include beliefs about witchcraft, magic, ordeals, and superstitions. Why are such incorrect beliefs so prevalent and how do they persist? We consider this question through an examination of superstitions and magic associated with conflict in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. Focusing on superstitions related to bullet-proofing, we provide theory and case-study evidence showing how these incorrect beliefs persist. Although harmful at the individual-level, we show that they generate Pareto efficient outcomes that have group-level benefits.
Z12|Economic Development and the Regulation of Morally Contentious Activities|"The regulation of many activities depends on whether societies consider them morally controversial or ""repugnant."" Not only have regulation and related ethical concerns changed over time, but there is also heterogeneity across countries at a given time. We provide evidence of this heterogeneity for three morally contentious activities, abortion, prostitution, and gestational surrogacy, and explore the relationship between a country's economic conditions and how these activities are regulated. We propose a conceptual framework to identify mechanisms that can explain our findings (including the role of non-economic factors), and indicate directions for future research."
Z12|Reproductive health care in Catholic-owned hospitals|Mergers that affiliate a hospital with a Catholic owner, network, or system reduce the set of possible reproductive medical procedures since Catholic hospitals have strict prohibitions on contraception. Using changes in ownership of hospitals, we find that Catholic hospitals reduce the per bed rates of tubal ligations by 31%, whereas there is no significant change in related permitted procedures such as Caesarian sections. However, across a variety of measures, we find minimal overall welfare reductions. Still, fewer tubal ligations increase the risk of unintended pregnancies across the United States, imposing a potentially substantial cost for less reliable contraception on women and their partners.
Z12|Historical Antisemitism, Ethnic Specialization, and Financial Development|For centuries, Jews in Europe have specialized in financial services. At the same time, they have been the victims of historical antisemitism on the part of the Christian majority. We find that present-day financial development is lower in German counties where historical antisemitism was higher, compared to otherwise similar counties. Households in counties with high historical antisemitism have similar savings rates but invest less in stocks, hold lower bank deposits, and are less likely to get a mortgage-but not to own a house-after controlling for wealth and a rich set of current and historical covariates. Present-day antisemitism and supply-side forces do not appear to fully explain the results. Present-day households in counties where historical antisemitism was higher express lower trust in finance, but have levels of generalized trust similar to other households.
Z12|"A ""gung-ho"" Approach Towards Sophic Economy"|"The object of this study has been the Sophic Economy of Sergei Bulgakov ï¿½ an alternative and valuable philosophical-economic doctrine. At the beginning, facts-examples have been identified in a contemporary, social and purposely localized context (contemporary Italian society), demonstrating a certain potential sensibility towards the idea of Sophic Economy. Then, Bulgakovï¿½s thought has been expounded with a purposeful tone instead of the critical-purposeful frame originally used by Bulgakov himself in the volume Philosophy of Economy: the world as household. The quality of the examined content has raised the simple question, What about the dynamics of the diffusion of ideas like these? Employing what I call the ""gung-ho"" approach ï¿½ the researcherï¿½s imagination as a historical technique method that does not integrate the facts of the past but places them in a sort of laboratory-simulative environment model ï¿½ the idea of Sophic Economy has been inserted in NetLogoï¿½s Spreading Utopian Ideas Model. The popularization of an alternative philosophical doctrine and the proposal-experiment of an original method of historical research in Economics have been the main results of the present study."
Z12|Quantifying the impact of Ramadan on global raw sugar prices|Each year during the month of Ramadan (Muslim fasting month) consumption of sugar increased dramatically across the globe as Muslims traditionally break their fast with some sweet drinks or products. Since Muslims use lunar calendar, the months are not fully aligned with the Gregorian calendar or with the seasonal calendar for agricultural crops. In this paper, we quantify the impact of Ramadan on both the price and its growth of global raw sugar price. To set the stage for the empirical work that follows, we employ a dummy and a fractional variable to capture Ramadan in order to overcome the asynchronicity of time between Ramadan fasting (which is based on Islamic lunar calendar) and movement in prices (which follows the Gregorian solar calendar). In order to capture seasonality of production in sugar production, data on sugar price spans over thirty-four years so that the Islamic calendar makes a complete cycle of the Gregorian calendar. Using ARIMA and UCM models, we find strong evidence that monthly raw sugar prices in the global market increases by roughly 6.06% (or $17.78 per metric ton) every year ahead of Ramadan.
Z12|Moralizing gods and armed conflict|This study documents a robust empirical pattern between moralizing gods, which prescribe fixed laws of morality, and conflict prevalence and fatalities, using spatially referenced data for Africa on contemporary conflicts and ancestral belief systems of individual ethnic groups prior to European contact. Moralizing gods are found to significantly increase conflict prevalence and casualties at the local level. The identification strategy draws on the evolutionary psychology roots of moralizing gods as a solution to the collective action problem in pre-modern societies. A one standard deviation increase in the likelihood of emergence of a moralizing god increases casualties by 18–36% and conflict prevalence by 4–8% approximately.
Z12|Negative Shocks and Mass Persecutions: Evidence from the Black Death|In this paper we study the Black Death persecutions (1347-1352) against Jews in order to shed light on the factors determining when a minority group will face persecution. We develop a theoretical framework which predicts that negative shocks increase the likelihood that minorities are scapegoated and persecuted. By contrast, as the shocks become more severe, persecution probability may actually decrease if there are economic complementarities between the majority and minority groups. We compile city- level data on Black Death mortality and Jewish persecution. At an aggregate level we find that scapegoating led to an increase in the baseline probability of a persecution. However, at the city-level, locations which experienced higher plague mortality rates were less likely to engage in persecutions. Furthermore, persecutions were more likely in cities with a history of antisemitism (consistent with scapegoating) and less likely in cities where Jews played an important economic role (consistent with inter-group complementarities).
Z12|Religious Fractionalisation and Crimes in Disaster-Affected Communities: Survey Evidence from Bangladesh| This study employs unique household data collected in cyclone-affected communities in Bangladesh to investigate whether religious fractionalisation is associated with crime victimisation after disasters. The identification strategy relies on two characteristics of the study area: 1) its religious composition is stable; and 2) its households’ pre-disaster socio-economic status is uncorrelated with religious fractionalisation and disaster damage after controlling for the observed characteristics. The findings suggest that households in disaster-affected and religiously fractionalised communities are more likely to be victims after a natural disaster than are households in non-fractionalised communities. This study also finds empirical support for the idea that the result is driven by the misallocation of disaster relief in fractionalised communities.
Z12|Macroeconomic Trends and Factors of Production Affecting Potato Producer Price in Developing Countries|Principal component analysis is performed on 33 mainly agriculture related social variables of 40 developing countries. Important components are also put to explain potato producer price. The analysis reveals that the data set contains macroeconomic trends; economic growth, growing importance of the potato and improving infrastructures for the market economy. Although the coefficients for these trends in affecting potato producer price are not statistically significant, it is noteworthy that their signs are in line with observations from earlier research. Economic growth and increasing potato importance are often accompanied with potato price rising in developing countries, whereas improving infrastructures increase availability of food with lower average prices. Potato producer price is statistically significantly affected by four factors of production: land, labour, capital and technology. Relating potato supply constraints of earlier survey literature to principal component interpretation also revealed primary paths how these macroeconomic inputs are being formed in developing countries. Potato suitability allows more cultivated land and greater production with lower price. Agricultural poverty brings limited alternatives and poor terms of trade for farmers, with abundant labour at low wage rate leading to low potato producer price. Better alternative business lowers capital inflow to agricultural land development, entailing low production and high price. Knowledge increases productivity lowering price.
Z12|Does Bible and Quran Represent the True Word of God, The Economist case against Addictive substances|Policy prescription regarding addictive substances is one of the critical issues facing humanity since time immemorial. It is a universal truth that drug adductors are always trouble makers in terms of creating violence, corruption, incest and numerous other immoral and corrupt activities across the globe. In order to formulate the best and universal policy approach, the present study analyzed the policy prescription of economists and different religions. Christian church like the Jews not only permits but encourage the use of addictive substances in their various religious festivals. Mainstream economists case about addictive substances is based on confusion and contradiction. In sharp contrast Islam consider addictive substances as the mother of all evils and ills. Muslim jurists on one side strictly restrict the production and consumption of addictive substances, while on the other side through moral education its use is discouraged.
Z12|Capital Structure of Malaysian Firms: Financing the Deficit and Shari’ah Compliance|Our paper evaluates the capital structure of Malaysian firms from a unique perspective by evaluating the impact of Shari’ah compliance on firms’ financing decision. We find that firms that are Shari’ah compliant tend to lean towards lower debt issues to finance their deficits, implying that the compliance status has an impact on their cost of equity which ultimately affects cost of capital.
Z12|A Treatise on Socioeconomic Roles of Zakah|A major preoccupation of policymakers is the design and implementation of public policy for efficient resource mobilization, allocation, stabilization of the economy and redistribution of wealth to guarantee minimum standard of living for all. At the extremes, the Capitalist and Socialist systems are characterized by the supremacy of self-interest in the former and total state control in the latter. Exacerbated by the prevalence of riba in the systems, unwanted economic outcomes; social and economic inequality, poverty, unemployment, crimes, booms and recessions, thrive. The Islamic economic system which blends the material pursuit with spiritual upliftment tailors economic policies towards attainment of Maqasid al-Shari’ah. As a pillar of Islam and an omnibus instrument of economic stabilization, Zakah serves as an automatic catalyst with backward and forward implications on resource mobilization, allocation, stabilization and redistribution of wealth. Using a heuristic approach, the paper conducts an in-depth assessment of the socioeconomic impact of Zakah in an Islamic economy. Evidences from review of both classical and empirical literature unveil the positive impact of Zakah on consumption, savings, investment leading to employment and higher productivity, (Kahf 1980; Metwally 1983; Khan 1984;Ahmad, 1985; Kuran 2006; Azmi, 2009 and Norulazidah, Ali & Myles,2010. Further, Zakah acts as an expansionary tool to those at lower income level and a discretionary tool to those at higher income level to redistribute income, remove poverty and facilitates provision of desired public good for the benefit of the poor Faridi (1983). The paper posits that in view of the overwhelming empirical evidences in the literature, Zakah is an effective tool for tackling socioeconomic problems of our modern times.
Z12|Are the Religiously Observant Discriminated Against in the Rental Housing Market? Experimental Evidence from Israel|In this paper, I test for discrimination against the religiously observant in the Israeli rental housing market. I perform a correspondence study where half of the requests have a religious signal (‘basad’ written at the top of the request), while the other half do not. Because the requests are identical otherwise, differences in call-back rates represent the causal effect of writing ‘basad’ at the top of the request. I find that requests with a religious signal receive 12 percent less responses than requests with no such signal, with this differential being greater in cities with more left-leaning voters and when the contact person is female. For comparison, requests signaling individuals from the Former Soviet Union receive about the same percentage of call-backs as religious requests, while requests signaling an Arab individual receive significantly fewer call-backs than the other groups.
Z12|Channeling Local Culture into Sustainable Microfinance Solutions by Akhuwat: From Borrowers to Donors|This study is carried out to analyze the factors that results in conversion of borrowers into donors. The findings assist the microfinance institutions in coming up with the most appropriate measures to apply in order to eliminate not only defaults but also gain some financial sustainability by improving its donor profile. The study establishes that religious education and organizational religious philosophy influence borrower’s prosocial behaviors. Through religious teaching Akhuwat inculcate sense of responsibility, feeling of gratitude and psychological attachment, along with spiritual satisfaction to motivate borrowers to become donors. Being faith inspired organization; Akhuwat culture and its brand image depict strong association with Islamic value. The study recommends that the MFIs in order to enjoy a cordial relationship need to align their business philosophy with the local culture.
Z12|Did Protestantism Promote Economic Prosperity via Higher Human Capital?|This paper investigates the Becker-Woessmann (2009) argument that Protestants were more prosperous in nineteenth-century Prussia because they were more literate, a version of the Weber thesis, and shows that it cannot be sustained. The econometric analysis on which Becker and Woessman based their argument is fundamentally flawed, because their instrumental variable does not satisfy the exclusion restriction. When an appropriate instrumental-variable specification is used, the evidence from nineteenth-century Prussia rejects the human-capital version of the Weber thesis put forward by Becker and Woessmann.
Z12|Practicing Catholics and their attitudes on homosexuality. Comparative analyses, based on recent World Values Survey data|The question in our essay is primarily whether the rejection of homosexuality still enjoys the support of the rank and file of the global Catholic faithful, and secondly, whether practicing Catholics (weekly Church attenders, “Dominicantes”) are more tolerant than the societies surrounding them in accepting homosexuality and in accepting homosexual neighbors. Our work, based on data from the “World Values Survey”, shows that the Vatican teaching on homosexuality has less and less followers, and that in the light of the close relationships of homosexuality acceptancy indicators with those of support for a democratic Open Society, discussed at length in the article, a rethinking of the entire issue would be advisable, if the Roman Catholic Church would like to continue to claim to be pillar of a democratic civil society.
Z12|Religiosity and Life Satisfaction in Russia: Evidence from the Russian Data|Does religiosity make you happy? Many studies document positive associations between religiosity and various forms of subjective wellbeing. This is also true for general life satisfaction in normal economic conditions and in the case of economic shocks. However, both life satisfaction and religiosity may be correlated with unobserved individual and household traits or unobserved life shocks which can relate to reverse causality. These facts result in endogeneity and make ordinary least square estimates biased. In our study, we employ two methods to avoid possible endogeneity issues – we use fixed effects and instrumental variable estimations. Using Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS-HSE) data and different econometric models, we document positive associations between religiosity and life satisfaction. In particular, fixed effect and instrumental variable regressions provide evidence for a positive effect of religiosity.
Z12|Are practicing Catholics more tolerant of other religions than the rest of the world? Comparative analyses based on World Values Survey data|Our article developed a new Indicator of Global Tolerance, and analyzed the performance of the practicing Roman Catholics in comparison to the national performances. Based on the latest survey wave of the World Values Survey (2015) we first show how much religious tolerance or intolerance shapes public opinion in the individual countries of the world. We then ask ourselves whether or not active, practicing Roman Catholics, who attend Church Services each Sunday (in Catholic jargon the Dominicantes) are more or less tolerant than overall society concerning our chosen five tolerance indicators. For the 59 states of the world there are complete data. While e.g. in Sweden and the United States 30% or less of the population have no confidence in people with a religious denomination other than their own, these percentages in Algeria; Armenia; Yemen; Kyrgyzstan; Libya; Morocco; Mexico; Palestine (occupied territories); Peru; Romania; Tunisia; and Uzbekistan are over 70% each. Among the ten states with the lowest general religious tolerance, based on our five indicators, there are nine predominantly Muslim states. The disappointing results for Germany both at the national level and at the level of the practicing Roman Catholics and the German Muslim community bode ill for the future capability of Germany to integrate the millions of refugees, which came to Germany since the beginnings of the European Refugee Crisis in the fall of 2015.
Z12|Energi baru terbarukan di Indonesia: Isyarat ilmiah al-Qur’an dan implementasinya dalam ekonomi Islam<BR>[Renewable energy policy in Indonesia: Scientific signs of the Qur'an and its implementation in Islamic economics]|This study confirms that renewable energy sources become the solution for energy development in Indonesia due to the increasingly depleted use of fossil-based energy, due to an increase in the population that increases energy consumption and waste in fuel consumption. The Qur'an has provided simple concepts and illustrations about renewable energy sources that can be utilized by humans, energy conservation, and energy enrichment. With the codification and content analysis approach to energy policy in Indonesia and energy themes in the Qur'an, this paper asserts that the Government of Indonesia's renewable energy policy focuses on providing and developing renewable energy as part of sustainable development. This renewable energy policy can be proven scientifically with the implementation of scientific Qur'anic terms about renewable energy sources such as water, geothermal, ocean, vegetation, and wind. The policy on energy conservation through energy saving becomes a religious obligation for every person, institution, and government because to meet the needs of consumers, maintain the survival of the community, and preserve the environment.
Z12|A Look to The Ottoman Cash Waqfs As Altruistic Finance Model|Although the waqfs have existed with the history of humanity and are useful in all societies, they had different role and place in Islamic societies. The waqfs have made institutionalized cooperation and solidarity among people. Especially in Islamic societies, great importance has been attached to waqfs. The waqfs that helped institutionalize the concept of infaq met many needs of the community. One of the Islamic states where the foundations are very active was the Ottoman Empire. The size of the waqf services in the Ottoman Empire expanded so much that, besides the human services, waqfs for injured birds and sick animals were established. The fact that the waqfs are so widespread in the state has made it possible to refer to the Ottoman Empire as a waqf civilization. One of the waqf types operating in the Ottoman Empire was the cash waqfs (CWs) which were made up of cash in the capital. The CWs operated the cash that made up its capital with various Islamic finance methods. Revenues from the operating money were used in the direction of waqf purpose. The CWs provided the vital necessities of the society such as education and religion in the period they were active in the Ottoman Empire. Another function of these waqfs was to operate as a micro-credit mechanism. Through these waqfs, the surplus and the accumulated savings in the hands of the asset owners were made available to merchants, farmers, craftsmen, and artisans. Hence, these waqfs have served as resource transfer channels as well as functioning as a charity in the society. The ultimate goal of CWs, which is the pioneer of modern interest-free financial institutions today, is different from these institutions. The CWs did not transfer the profits they got to the waqf founder or owner. The income obtained has been spent to fulfill the charitable services in the direction of the waqf purposes. Therefore, these institutions created Altruistic Finance Model operating within the borders of Islamic prohibitions and orders. In our study, the financial mentality of the Ottoman society in the context of the CWs and how this mentality shaped the CWs will be discussed.
Z12|Spiritual Practices and Dispositional Optimism in an Underprivileged Population|Optimism seems to foster the ability to manage adverse situations better - a finding especially relevant for disadvantaged populations. Employing a unique sample from a small underprivileged village, we study the association between spiritual practices and dispositional optimism. The village belongs to a developing country that is, by far, the most secular country in Latin America: this makes particularly interesting exploring the role of spiritual practices in this context. We find that spiritual practices are positively associated with higher optimism, measured by the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R): those who practice spirituality, score, on average, 14.4 percentage points higher on the LOT-R than those who do not. And this association seems to be especially robust in the case of the poor and less educated: those with spiritual practices score 20 percentage points higher on the LOT-R. Thus, the role that spiritual practices may play in dispositional optimism in disadvantaged populations deserves more attention.
Z12|The discursive brand analysis of the accommodation units from the touristic basin of Sucevița (Bukovina Region, Romania)|In the rural areas where there is an economic potential clearly defined by the agricultural or commercial activities, tourism is the business key within reach. Under the circumstances, the socio-economic reflex takes the form of developing projects for tourist services, especially in the places with tourist potential. Further, the local economy, at least with respect to the private initiative, advances towards agritourism. In the present study we aim to run a discursive analysis of the presentation messages offered by 54 accommodation units from the touristic basin of Sucevița. Making an inventory of the online messages (own sites and platforms for touristic services) we could identify 24 key concepts (keywords and key phrases) and starting from their occurrences within the identity narratives of the accommodation units we have analysed their relationship with the supra themes and the themes belonging to the local and regional brand. Further on, we have outlined the general profile of the accommodation units and the profile of the target group as they appear in their presentation discourses. The relationship between these two profiles reveals strong brand connections but also shows some fractions which can be mended. To repair these inconsistencies, we provide a few handy recommendations in formulating medium and long-term strategies of development in the rural tourism.
Z12|The Impact of the Reformation on the Economic Development of Western Europe|The Protestant Reformation is a vivid example of how religious transformation could set in motion institutional changes, leading to profound consequences for economic and political development. Although economists and other social scientists agree that there is a strong relation between the Reformation and economic growth, there is an active discussion as to what are the causal pathways connecting Protestantism to long-run economic success. We discuss the causal pathways that received substantial empirical support in academic literature. Some of them, such as “work ethic” and entrepreneurial spirit of Protestants, were originally suggested by Max Weber, while others, such as religious freedom and education, are deeply grounded in economic theory. More recently, other causal pathways have been suggested, such as social ethic, civil society, and institutional changes. We bring our view of these pathways.
Z12|Competition, Banking Stability and Growth: Evidence from the dual banking system in OIC countries|This study tests the proposition that the Islamic banks are more stable and profitable, especially during the crisis period and tests the impact of competition on both the Islamic and conventional banks using array of measures including the recently developed Boone index in OIC countries. The results can be summarized as follows. First, increase in share of Islamic banks assets increases the overall stability of banking sector. Second, Islamic banks are more stable as compare to their conventional peers but the profitability measures shows that the both the banks are same. This finding is in sharp contradiction with the theoretical standing of Islamic banks being more profitable. This may be due to the significant divergence of Islamic banks from the theory as it is supposed to operate on the risk sharing arrangement. Third, competition has similar effects on stability and profitability on both the banks. Fourth, Islamic banks did better in terms of profitability during the crisis as compare to conventional banks. It also suggests that the Islamic banks were more stable during the crisis period. Finally, we provide evidence of complimentary effect of Islamic and conventional banks in influencing the income per capita suggesting that the co-existence of both the banking system is rewarding for the economies.
Z12|The Construction of Gender in Saudi Arabia|Gender equality is a controversial issue and has been a constant subject of debate across the world in varied domains and disciplines, particularly in the field of Higher Education (HE). Several scholars distinguish between the terms gender and sex. They believe that gender is a social construct and learnt behaviour, while sex is perceived as a biological category (McHugh 2007). Such differences in gender can be viewed as a cultural phenomenon, generating from the dominant concepts of a specific culture or era (Weiner 2010).It is argued that Muslim women are enslaved through oppression and inequality (Aquil 2012). Such inequality can be recognised in varied forms, for instance, their underrepresentation in several areas of achievement and progress particularly in acceding to senior management positions in academia. It seems that there is no exception for women in Saudi Arabia either, who might encounter such issues. Certain factors can be attributed to why women, particularly in Saudi Arabia, are not accorded career progression like their male counterparts, the primary one being the fact that 60% of Saudi women are homemakers (Alharbi 2014). Therefore, the aim of this paper is to investigate the intersection and influence of wider social discourses, religion, culture, and traditions on the role of Saudi women at work and exploring the nature and root causes of discrimination. My research methodology utilised a qualitative approach in the form of multiple case studies. This research was performed from a feminist standpoint. Feminist research brings gender to the foreground and endeavours to understand social phenomena from the perspective of women (Cohen et al. 2013). Similarly, as stated by Lather (1998) a leading scholar in feminist research, the purpose of such ideological study is to ?correct both the invisibility and distortion of female experience in ways relevant to ending women?s unequal social position?. The research sample comprised 25 participants, all female academics from five state universities, selected intentionally for this research, who had either been promoted to leadership positions or not. Additionally, there were five male participants who were considered key informants, closely connected with the formulation and implementation of policies in HE institutions in Saudi Arabia. This paper addresses the following question: To what extent are the obstacles that Saudi female academics face within the university, a reflection of the influence of wider social discourses, religion, cultures, and traditions on the role of Saudi working women?
Z12|Challenges and barriers to the development of sukuk in the European capital market|Sukuk are instruments of the capital market whose construction is based on the sharia rules. Over the last two decades, the sukuk market has become global. However, the main centres of trade are still located in South-Eastern Asia, with Malaysia at the forefront, and countries in the Persian Gulf region. Sukuk are present in the European financial market, mainly through companies' issues and the functioning of centres of trade in London, Luxembourg and Dublin. Despite that, the Islamic certificates have not yet gained significant interest. The paper will indicate the types of challenges and barriers related to issuing and trading sukuk in the European market. The research applies an analysis of literature on the subject, reasoning based on statistical data regarding the European market and a case study of a 2014 sukuk offering transacted by the government of the United Kingdom. The paper indicates that the specific characteristics of sukuk lead to the conclusion that they should be treated as a separate category of capital market instruments. In consequence, trading in these instruments on the European financial market requires an adjustment of the applicable legal norms. What is more, the fact that sukuk's structure is more complicated than that of traditional financial instruments increases risks and costs of the issuers. The distinctness and variety of sukuk forms hinder financial risk assessment, and thus have a negative impact on the scale of investors' interest in sukuk.
Z12|Religiosity and Labour Earnings in Canadian Provinces|Abstract Using recent data from the Canadian General Social Survey, I examine how religious belief and practice relate to labour earnings in Canada. Noting that religious landscape strongly varies across Canadian provinces, I explore whether these discrepancies are reflected in the association of wages and religiosity indicators, for men and women. Moreover, I identify two groups of individuals, one without any tie with religion and spirituality, and the other shaping their lives around them. I find that males belonging to the least religious group earn significantly below otherwise identical individuals in the high affiliation province of Newfoundland, while they enjoy a ceteris paribus wage premium in the low religiosity provinces of British Columbia and Québec. Females of the most religious group, on the other hand, are found at a disadvantage in the Canadian west, where affiliation with Conservative Protestantism is more prevalent.
Z12|Impact of Psychological Needs on Luxury Consumption|This paper examines the impact of psychological needs on luxury consumption. Veblen’s Theory of the Leisure Class (1899) invented the term “conspicuous consumption” to describe luxury goods and services, in which Veblen indicated the purpose of luxury consumption was to display wealth and social status. This paper integrates the following two papers: (1) Han and Zhou (2002), who proposed an integrative model, and argued that three variables, namely Country-of-Origin, Brand Name, and Price, were major predictors for overall product evaluation and purchase intentions; and (2) Han, Nunes and Dreze (2010), who proposed a taxonomy called The Luxury 4Ps, to explain the inductive and deductive psychological needs of luxury consumption.
Z12|The Explosive Combination of Religious Decentralisation and Autocracy: the Case of Islam|The relationship between religion and politics is explored from a theoretical standpoint. Religious clerics can be seduced by an autocrat and political stability is at stake. The autocrat's decisions consist of two measures susceptible of antagonising religious clerics: adopting secular reforms and unduly appropriating part of national wealth, which generally are complement. Compared to centralized religions, decentralized religions, such as Islam, tend to discourage secular reforms and corruption but those effects are not guaranteed if the autocrat accepts political instability. The main hypotheses and the central results of the theory are illustrated with regime case studies that refer to contemporary times.
Z12|Impact of Psychological Needs on Luxury Consumption|This paper examines the impact of psychological needs on luxury consumption. Veblen’s Theory of the Leisure Class (1899) invented the term “conspicuous consumption” to describe luxury goods and services, in which Veblen indicated the purpose of luxury consumption was to display wealth and social status. This paper integrates the following two papers: __(1)__ Han and Zhou (2002), who proposed an integrative model, and argued that three variables, namely Country-of-Origin, Brand Name, and Price, were major predictors for overall product evaluation and purchase intentions; and __(2)__ Han, Nunes and Dreze (2010), who proposed a taxonomy called The Luxury 4Ps, to explain the inductive and deductive psychological needs of luxury consumption.
Z12|Transmisión de la religiosidad y homofobia|Se considera homofobia todas aquellas actitudes negativas y discriminatorias hacia las personas homosexuales. Hay evidencia que sugiere que cuando estas miradas o creencias se transforman en comportamientos, las consecuencias para las personas homosexuales son muy negativas. Al analizar los orígenes de las actitudes homofóbicas, la literatura encuentra a la religión como una de las fuentes con importancia. En este estudio analizamos la asociación entre la intensidad de la actividad religiosa en la adolescencia y las actitudes homofóbicas en etapa adulta. Los datos utilizados en este estudio fueron obtenidos de la encuesta International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) 2008 Religión III. Los resultados muestran tres aspectos interesantes. Primero, la transmisión de las creencias religiosas durante la adolescencia está asociada positivamente con la homofobia en la edad adulta. Segundo, a mayor educación los individuos tienden a ser menos homofóbicos y tercero, a pesar de que la intensidad de la transmisión religiosa incrementa la homofobia, la educación es dominante en el sentido que la interacción entre la trasmisión religiosa y la educación tiene un efecto marginal negativo en la homofobia.
Z12|Friendship network composition and subjective wellbeing|Using data from the UK Community Life Survey, we present the first study to examine the relationship between heterogeneity in one’s friendship network and subjective wellbeing. We measure network heterogeneity by the extent to which one’s friends are similar to oneself with regard to ethnicity and religion. We find that people who have friendship networks with characteristics dissimilar to themselves have lower levels of subjective wellbeing. Specifically, our two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimates, using measures of ethnic and religious diversity based on the Herfindahl-type fractionalization index that are flipped between adjoining rural/urban areas as instruments, suggest that a standard deviation increase in the proportion of one’s friends from different ethnic (religious) groups is associated with a decrease of 0.276 (0.451) standard deviations in subjective wellbeing.
Z12|A multi-religious consensus on the ethics of sustainable development: Reflections of the Ethics in Action initiative|"The challenges of sustainable development are primarily ethical in nature. Guided by a ceaseless quest for profit, today's global economy is synonymous with vast amounts of exclusion, indignity, and environmental devastation. To succeed, therefore, the Sustainable Development Goals require ""moral capacity"" as much as financial or technical capacity. In line with the recently-formed Ethics in Action initiative, the authors therefore propose a sequence of measures designed to better orient the global economy toward the common good, coherent with the values of the world's major religious traditions. These proposals are in the areas of financing, the pursuit of justice, and pedagogy."
Z12|Banking on a Religious Divide: Accounting for the Success of the Netherlands' Raiffeisen Cooperatives in the Crisis of the 1920s|This article investigates the impact of the socioreligious segregation of Dutch society on the asset allocation choices of rural bankers and the withdrawal behavior of their depositors during the early 1920s. Results suggest that cooperatively-owned Raiffeisen banks for both Catholic and Protestant minority groups could limit their exposure to a debt-deflation crisis, despite operating more precarious balance sheets than banks for majorities. Business histories demonstrate how strict membership criteria and personal guarantors acted as screening and monitoring devices. Banks serving minorities functioned as club goods, managing their exposure to the crisis by exploiting the confessionalized nature of Dutch society.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Z12|Risk-taking, Trust, and Traumatization of Refugees in Germany – A Field Experiment|We ran a number of experiments among refugees and Germans.In a first step, we ask whether refugees and Germans behave differently and find that risk preferences do not significantly differ between them. However, refugees are less trusting than Germans. In a second step, we seek to identify the factors determining the behavior of refugees and find that attributing a high importance to religion as well as having lived in a tent or container in Germany are associated with lower trust levels.
Z12|Cultural Proximity and Loan Outcomes|We present evidence that cultural proximity (shared codes, beliefs, ethnicity) between lenders and borrowers increases the quantity of credit and reduces default. We identify in-group lending using dyadic data on religion and caste for officers and borrowers from an Indian bank, and a rotation policy that induces exogenous matching between them. Having an in-group officer increases credit access and loan size dispersion, reduces collateral requirements, and induces better repayment even after the in-group officer leaves. We consider a range of explanations and suggest that the findings are most easily explained by cultural proximity serving to mitigate information frictions in lending.
Z12|From Peer Pressure to Biased Norms|This paper studies a coordination game between a continuum of players with heterogeneous tastes who perceive peer pressure when behaving differently from each other. It characterizes the conditions under which a social norm--a mode of behavior followed by many--exists in equilibrium and the patterns of norm compliance. The emergent norm may be biased compared to the average taste in society, yet endogenously upheld by the population. Strikingly, a biased norm will, under some circumstances, be more sustainable than a non-biased norm, which may explain the bias of various social and religious norms.
Z12|Terror per Capita|Studies on the correlates of terrorism usually analyze total numbers of attacks or victims per country. However, what we may ultimately care about in terms of policy recommendations is the likelihood of any individual being subject to the respective phenomenon. Thus, we propose and explore a simple alternative measure of terrorism: terror per capita. Studying terror per capita across 162 countries from 1970–2015, the associated correlates differ substantially in terms of sign, levels of statistical significance, and magnitude from those when analyzing total terror. We illustrate two cases in point, serving as proof of concept. First, democracy, often associated with more total terror, emerges as a marginally negative predictor of terror per capita. Second, a larger share of Muslims in society is associated with a positive and statistically significant link to total terror, but emerges as a negative predictor of terror per capita. We find similar changes in sign and statistical relevance for GDP per capita and language fractionalization as correlates of terrorism. Depending on the policy question, studying terror per capita can greatly enhance our understanding of terrorism drivers, especially when analyzing data across countries with vastly differing population sizes.
Z12|Worldviews and Intergenerational Altruism: A Comparison of Turkish People Living in Turkey and Germany|In this paper, we examine and compare the impact of cultural differences on intergenerational altruism in Turkish people living in Turkey and in Germany, using the anthropological concept of worldview. Data were gathered from four surveys: nationwide surveys in Turkey and Germany, an online survey of Turkish people living in Germany, and a survey conducted as an experiment in a mosque attended by Turkish people in Germany. We find striking differences in parenting attitudes between Turkish people living in Turkey and those who live in Germany. Turkish people living in Germany tend to resemble German people in their parenting attitudes. We also find that differences in confidence attached to worldview beliefs, differences in religiosity, and the subjective probabilities attached to worldview beliefs (such as “All humans evolved from another living organism”) between Turkish people living in Turkey and those in Germany have statistically significant explanatory power for these differences in parenting attitudes.
Z12|Historical Antisemitism, Ethnic Specialization, and Financial Development|For centuries, Jews in Europe have specialized in financial services. At the same time, they have been the victims of historical antisemitism on the part of the Christian majority. We find that present-day financial development is lower in German counties where historical antisemitism was higher, compared to otherwise similar counties. Households in counties with high historical antisemitism have similar savings rates but invest less in stocks, hold lower bank deposits, and are less likely to get a mortgage–but not to own a house–after controlling for wealth and a rich set of current and historical covariates. Present-day antisemitism and supply-side forces do not appear to fully explain the results. Present-day households in counties where historical antisemitism was higher express lower trust in finance, but have levels of generalized trust similar to other households.
Z12|Did Protestantism promote economic prosperity via higher human capital?|This paper investigates the Becker-Woessmann (2009) argument that Protestants were more prosperous in nineteenth-century Prussia because they were more literate, a version of the Weber thesis, and shows that it cannot be sustained. The econometric analysis on which Becker and Woessman based their argument is fundamentally flawed, because their instrumental variable does not satisfy the exclusion restriction. When an appropriate instrumental-variable specification is used, the evidence from nineteenth-century Prussia rejects the human-capital version of the Weber thesis put forward by Becker and Woessmann.
Z12|Religious Tolerance as Engine of Innovation|We argue that, for a given level of scientific knowledge, tolerance and diversity are conducive to technological creativity and innovation. In particular, we show that variations in innovation within Prussia during the second industrial revolution can be ascribed to differences in religious tolerance that developed in continental Europe from the Peace of Westphalia onwards. By matching a unique historical dataset about religious tolerance in 1,278 Prussian cities with valuable patents for the period 1877-1890, we show that higher levels of religious tolerance are strongly positively associated with innovation during the second industrial revolution. Religious tolerance is measured through population's religious diversity, diversity of churches, and diversity of preachers and religious teachers, respectively. Endogeneity issues are addressed using local variation across cities, within counties. Estimates using preindustrial levels of religious tolerance address issues of reverse causality. As for the channels of transmission, we find significant complementarity between religious tolerance and human capital. Furthermore, we find that cities with higher levels of religious tolerance attracted a larger share of migrants. Finally, higher levels of religious diversity in the population translated into higher levels of religious diversity in the workforce by industrial sector. This result suggests that religious diversity did not generate labor market segmentation by denomination but might have fostered interaction of different denominations.
Z12|The Explosive Combination of Religious Decentralisation and Autocracy: the Case of Islam|The relationship between religion and politics is explored from a theoretical standpoint. Religious clerics can be seduced by an autocrat and political stability is at stake. The autocrat's decisions consist of two measures susceptible of antagonising religious clerics: adopting secular reforms and unduly appropriating part of national wealth, which generally are complement. Compared to centralized religions, decentralized religions, such as Islam, tend to discourage secular reforms and corruption but those effects are not guaranteed if the autocrat accepts political instability. The main hypotheses and the central results of the theory are illustrated with regime case studies that refer to contemporary times.
Z12|Sex and the Mission: The Conflicting Effects of Early Christian Investments on the HIV Epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa|This article investigates the long-term historical impact of missionary activity on the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. On the one hand, missionaries were among the first to invest in modern medicine in a number of countries. On the other hand, Christianity influenced sexual beliefs and behaviors. We build a new geocoded dataset locating Protestant and Catholic missions in the early 20th century, as well as their health investments. Using a number of different empirical strategies to address selection in missionary locations and into health investments, we show that missionary presence has conflicting effects on HIV today. Regions close to historical mission stations exhibit higher HIV prevalence. This negative impact is robust to multiple specifications accounting for urbanization, and we provide evidence that it is specific to STDs. Less knowledge about condom use is a likely channel. On the contrary, among regions historically close to missionary settlements, proximity to a mission with a health investment is associated with lower HIV prevalence nowadays. Safer sexual behaviors around these missions are a possible explanatory channel.
Z12|Religious Tolerance as Engine of Innovation|We argue that, for a given level of scientific knowledge, tolerance and diversity are conducive to technological creativity and innovation. In particular, we show that variations in innovation within Prussia during the second industrial revolution can be ascribed to differences in religious tolerance that developed in continental Europe from the Peace of Westphalia onwards. By matching a unique historical dataset about religious tolerance in 1,278 Prussian cities with valuable patents for the period 1877-1890, we show that higher levels of religious tolerance are strongly positively associated with innovation during the second industrial revolution. Religious tolerance is measured through population’s religious diversity, diversity of churches, and diversity of preachers and religious teachers, respectively. Endogeneity issues are addressed using local variation across cities, within counties. Estimates using preindustrial levels of religious tolerance address issues of reverse causality. As for the channels of transmission, we find significant complementarity between religious tolerance and human capital. Furthermore, we find that cities with higher levels of religious tolerance attracted a larger share of migrants. Finally, higher levels of religious diversity in the population translated into higher levels of religious diversity in the workforce by industrial sector. This result suggests that religious diversity did not generate labor market segmentation by denomination but might have fostered interaction of different denominations.
Z12|How Vatican II influenced female enfranchisement: A story of rapid cultural change|The importance of culture for human behavior is well established in the economic literature. So far, most authors have emphasized the long persistence of cultural traits. In contrast, this paper deals with an important case of a rapid update of culturally rooted beliefs and behavior. Using a newly composed historical dataset (1919-1984), this paper provides evidence that the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965) had a rapid effect on Catholics’ voting behavior pertaining to female enfranchisement in Switzerland. In various difference-in-differences settings, the Second Vatican Council turns out to increase the acceptance of women’s suffrage in Catholic municipalities, when compared to Protestant municipalities.
Z12|The Rise and Fall of Castrati|Castrato singers appeared in the Western World during the 16th century. They were needed by the Church for reasons that we shall discuss, and their skills were such that opera composers also decided to use them. This created a major demand for their services. Castrati reigned supreme at the Opera until the mid-19th century and continued to sing in Italian churches until 1913. The last one died in Rome in 1922. The paper shows that economic incentives played a key role in explaining the rise and fall of this remarkable group of singers.
Z12|Does religion matter to corruption? Evidence from China|There is a growing interest in understanding how religion affects corruption. Using provincial-level panel data from 1998 to 2009, this paper investigates the effect of religious beliefs on bureaucratic corruption in China. The empirical results show that, bureaucratic corruption is negatively associated with local religious heritage, implying that religious culture plays a positive role in restraining official's corruption since religion has influence on political preference and work ethic. We also find that the negative association between religion and corruption is weaker in provinces with stronger law enforcement, which identifies the substitution effect between religious ethic and legal supervision in curbing corruption. Our findings also reveal that, among the different religions, the anti-corruption effects of China's native religions (i.e., Taoism and Buddhism) are more significant than those of foreign religions (i.e., Christianity and Islam). These conclusions are consistent and robust to various measures of main variables and a variety of robustness checks. Given the very few studies and limited data resources in the context of China, this paper as a tentative study provides new evidences of the relationship between religion and corruption.
Z12|Does an Islamic label indicate good corporate governance?|In this paper we study the effect of an Islamic label on corporate governance. Listed firms with an Islamic label (Islamic firms) are characterized by low leverage. Because recent evidence indicates that leverage can act as a substitute for good governance, it is tempting to expect these Islamic firms to have better governance than their non-Islamic peers. However, we find no significant difference in overall governance between Islamic and non-Islamic S&P 500 firms. Also, after controlling for other determinants of governance, we find no significant effect of an Islamic label. We do find that an Islamic label adds about 2 percentage points of governance quality, as measured by the Bloomberg Governance Disclosure score. However, this effect is not related to leverage.
Z12|Which firms use Islamic financing?|This study explores to what extent the Islamic financing instruments are used by non-financial firms. Based on a panel data of firms from fourteen developing countries for the 2005–2009 period, we find that Islamic financing forms a significant share of the users’ capital structures. Less profitable firms are found more likely to use debt than equity in which case Islamic instruments were preferred over conventional debt. The finding suggests that Islamic financing does benefit less profitable firms, which is consistent with the agency cost perspective.
Z12|Divine restraint: An experimental analysis of religious preference and intertemporal discounting|The propensity to delay gratification, measured by the discount rate, is associated with a variety of positive outcomes including higher rates of education and savings, as well as lower rates of poverty or addiction. There is a significant literature which supports a linkage between religion and self-regulation. We use an online experimental approach to test the influence of religious salience on intertemporal discount rates. The experiment used both real and hypothetical rewards in its design. Using a large sample, we are able to test the impact of religious primes across a variety of religious traditions as well as the non-religious. Contrary to previous studies, we do not find evidence that increased religious salience increases observed discount rates. Furthermore, we find no significant difference in the impact of religious salience across religious groups.
Z12|Economic shocks, inter-ethnic complementarities and the persecution of minorities: Evidence from the Black Death|"""In this paper we study the Black Death persecutions (1347-1352) against Jews inorder to shed light on the factors determining when a minority group will face perse-cution. We develop a theoretical framework which predicts that negative shocks in-crease the likelihood that minorities are scapegoated and persecuted. By contrast, as theshocks become more severe, persecution probability may actually decrease if there areeconomic complementarities between the majority and minority groups. We compilecity-level data on Black Death mortality and Jewish persecution. At an aggregate levelwe find that scapegoating led to an increase in the baseline probability of a persecution.However, at the city-level, locations which experienced higher plague mortality rateswere less likely to engage in persecutions. Furthermore, persecutions were more likelyin cities with a history of antisemitism (consistent with scapegoating) and less likelyin cities where Jews played an important economic role (consistent with inter-groupcomplementarities)."""
Z12|Subjective Wellbeing and Institutions: The Case of Rural Ethiopia|This study focuses on the role of religiosity, general and political trust, local participation, and welfare metrics on wellbeing in rural areas using the Ethiopian Rural Household Survey. Ordered probit methods that account for Heteroscedasticity reveal distinctive correlates of overall life satisfaction and momentary happiness. Broader socio-economic factors such as religiosity and political governance strongly predict life satisfaction, while largely welfare metrics drive momentary happiness. The differential role of institutions on life satisfaction and momentary happiness is in comport with Deaton’s (2008) and Stevenson and Wolfers’s (2008) proposition that life satisfaction and happiness are not synonymous.
Z12|Impact of Tri Hita Karana Culture on the Use of Accounting Information Systems and User Satisfaction as the Expression of Information System Success|"""Objective – The research aims to examine whether Tri Hita Karana (THK) culture influences the use of Acccounting Information System (AIS) and user satisfaction as the expression of Information Systems (IS) success. Methodology/Technique – The research was conducted in Badung Regency with Customary Village Financial Institution (LPD) as the sample. This research observes 55 LPDs in Badung Regency. The data was analyzed using SEM analysis with a PLS approach. Findings – The results of this research show that THK culture influences the use of AIS; THK culture influences through perceptions of use and perceptions of simplicity; THK culture influences user satisfaction through perception of use, perception of simplicity, and the use of AIS; perception of use and perception of simplicity influence the use of AIS; perception of use does not influence user satisfaction; perception of simplicity influences user satisfaction; AIS use effects user satisfaction; perception of use effects user satisfaction through the use of AIS. Novelty – The research suggests that suggestions for developing AIS in LPDs across Badung Regency or for further research in the field of AIS include: (1) dividing the LPDs into groups based on their business scale (either their amount of capital or the amount of assets owned); and (2) further exploring the impact of THK culture on the use of AIS."""
Z12|Religious Influences on Store Loyalty Among Grocery Shoppers In Mauritius: The Mediating Role of Trust|Objective – This paper explores the relationship between consumer religion and store loyalty, to empirically test whether this relationship can be mediated by consumer trust. This study draws its theoretical foundations from literature focused on customers interpersonal relationships with salespeople and customer trust, in particular the study by Sheth (1983) on Shopping Preference Theory. Methodology/Technique – A randomly selected sample of Mauritian grocery shoppers is used in this study. The data was collected through a telephone interview of 409 grocery shoppers. The final sample consisted of 49.4% Hindus, 17.4% Muslims and 33.2% Catholics, reflecting the religious portion of the Mauritian population. Findings – The use of regression analysis shows that religious commitment has a significant relationship with store loyalty. When trust is introduced into the model, this significant relationship becomes insignificant, demonstrating how religious commitment strongly influences trust. Research Limitations/Implications – The findings are limited to grocery shoppers in Mauritius. Generalisation of the results is achieved by broadening the context of shopping activities examined, for example, to include online shopping for durable and non-durable products. Examining a broader group of religions may also be considered. Novelty – The mediation model proposed in this study demonstrates the significance of the mediating role of trust in the relationship between consumer religious preferences and their loyalty to shops. To date, this topic has been given little attention at the retail level. These findings address the gap in the religious domain by focusing more significantly on ways to improve store loyalty through the use of trust in the retail setting, in areas where the market is highly religious.
Z12|Does Religion Make You Sick? Evidence of a Negative Relationship between Religious Background and Health|Religious beliefs and practices influence individual lives and societies in many ways. We study how religion affects self-assessed health, which in turn is important for both individual well-being and productivity. A religious background predicts worse health. As the previous literature has not been able to rule out reverse causality, we apply a novel method that does. The health of the children of immigrants in 30 European countries is related to different measures of religiosity in their mothers’ birth countries. Since religiosity in the mothers’ birth countries predicts children’s religiosity (through transmission in the family), we can use the former as a measure of the latter. Moreover, the children’s health arguably cannot affect the religiosity of their mothers’ home countries (measured several decades earlier). Furthermore, the negative relationship between religious background and health is robust to accounting for a range of individual and ancestral country characteristics, to excluding the most and least religious ancestral countries, and to accounting for systematic differences across ancestral continents. The negative relationship, which we also find in U.S. data, suggests that the positive correlations between health and religiosity in the earlier literature are not due to religion promoting health.
Z12|Are Religions for Sale? Evidence from the Swedish Church Revolt over Same-Sex Marriage|Religious leaders sometimes condemn progressive social norms. In this paper, I revisit David Hume’s hypothesis that secular states can “bribe” churches into adopting less strict religious doctrines. The hypothesis is difficult to test due to reverse causality: more liberal theologies may attract more political support in the first place. To circumvent this problem, I focus on a theological conflict over same-sex marriage within the Church of Sweden and take advantage of political regulations that effectively make some parishes shareholders of the church’s state-protected property. The shares used for statistical identification are tied to property rights assigned more than 300 years ago, and they cannot be sold, traded or amended by the individual parishes. I find that priests in shareholding parishes are less likely to publicly oppose same-sex marriage. The effect is stronger in parishes with more conservative members. The combined results are consistent with a model of clerical opportunism, in which access to political rents increases the clergy’s loyalty to the political sponsors relative to the local community.
Z12|Religiosity and life satisfaction in Russia: Evidence from the Russian data|Does religiosity make you happy? Many studies document positive associations between religiosity and various forms of subjective wellbeing. This is also true for general life satisfaction in normal economic conditions and in the case of economic shocks. However, both life satisfaction and religiosity may be correlated with unobserved individual and household traits or unobserved life shocks which can relate to reverse causality. These facts result in endogeneity and make ordinary least square estimates biased. In our study, we employ two methods to avoid possible endogeneity issues – we use fixed effects and instrumental variable estimations. Using Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS-HSE) data and different econometric models, we document positive associations between religiosity and life satisfaction. In particular, fixed effect and instrumental variable regressions provide evidence for a positive effect of religiosity.
Z12|Book Review: Jurisprudence of the Islamic Financial Engineering: Foundation and Practical Study, by: Murdi Al-Enazi, Reviewed by: Abderrazak Said Belabes مراجعة علمية لكتاب: فقه الهندسة المالية الإسلامية: دراسة تأصيلية تطبيقية - تأليف: مرضي مشوّح العنزي - مراجعة: عبدالرزاق سعيد بلعباس|Financial engineering is considered one of the hottest topics that attract the attention of researchers in Islamic finance. In this context, Murdi al-Anzi prepared a Ph.D. thesis at Qassim University in order to establish a foundation for the topic according to Islamic law on the basis of some products used in the Islamic financial industry. The book review concludes several results, notably: the awareness of the non-neutrality of means, the rigor in the use of the concept of innovation, and overcoming the elitist view which holds that financial solutions are the prerogative of financial engineers. The book review recommends the preparation of two survey studies: The developments concerning the research on financial engineering in the light of the financial crisis, and the writings about Islamic financial engineering in English and French. تُعدُّ الهندسة الماليّة من الموضوعات الساخنة التي تجلب اهتمام الباحثين في التمويل الإسلامي. في هذا الإطار أعدّ مرضي العنزي أطروحة دكتوراه بجامعة القصيم لتأصيل الموضوع بناء على بعض المنتجات المتداولة في الصناعة المالية الإسلامية. وتخلص المراجعة العلمية إلى نتائج عدّة، من أبرزها: الوعي بعدم حيادية الوسائل، وضبط مصطلح الابتكار، وتجاوز النظرة النخبوية التي ترى أن الحلول المالية هي من اختصاص المهندسين الماليين. وتوصي المراجعة العلمية بضرورة إعداد دراستين مسحيتين: تتناول أولاهما مستجدات البحث العلمي في الهندسة المالية في ضوء الأزمة المالية العالمية، والثانية الكتابات عن الهندسة المالية الإسلامية باللغتين الإنجليزية والفرنسية.
Z12|?One Muslim is Enough!? Evidence from a Field Experiment in France|Anti-Muslim prejudice is widespread in Western countries. Yet, Muslims are expected to constitute a growing share of the total population in these countries over the next decades. This paper suggests that this demographic trend, other factors held constant, will increase anti-Muslim prejudice. Relying on experimental games and a formal model, we find that French players with no recent immigrant background discriminate against Muslims when the proportion of Muslims in their midst increases. Further analysis provides tentative evidence that this discrimination is taste-based.
Z12|The Caloric Costs of Culture: Evidence from Indian Migrants|Anthropologists have documented substantial and persistent differences in food preferences across social groups. My paper asks whether such food cultures can constrain caloric intake? I first document that interstate migrants within India consume fewer calories per rupee of food expenditure compared to their neighbors. Second, I show that migrants bring their origin-state food preferences with them. Third, I link these findings by showing that the gap in caloric intake between locals and migrants depends on the suitability and intensity of the migrants' origin-state preferences. The most affected migrants would consume seven percent more calories if they possessed their neighbors' preferences. (JEL D12, I12, O15, R23, Z12, Z13)
Z12|Religious Workers' Density and the Racial Earnings Gap|We explore differences between Black and White Non-Hispanic workers in the relationship between childhood exposure to religious workers and a worker's labor market outcomes thirty years later. We identify this relationship by exploiting two sources of variation: we use changes in the number of religious workers within states, and we use states' differences by following workers who moved to a different state. Our results suggest that a one percent increase in the number of clergy increases the earnings of Black workers by a range from 0.027 to 0.082 percent relative to the increase in the earnings of White workers.
Z12|Extrinsic and Intrinsic Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Germany|We study extrinsic and intrinsic motivations for tax compliance in the context of a local church tax in Germany. This tax system has historically relied on zero deterrence so that any compliance at baseline is intrinsically motivated. Starting from this zero deterrence baseline, we implement a field experiment that incentivized compliance through deterrence or rewards. Using administrative records of taxes paid and true tax liabilities, we use these treatments to document that intrinsically motivated compliance is substantial, that a significant fraction of it may be driven by duty-to-comply preferences, and that there is no crowd-out between extrinsic and intrinsic motivations.
Z12|The New Economics of Religion|The economics of religion is a relatively new field of research in economics. This survey serves two purposes--it is backward-looking in that it traces the historical and sociological origins of this field, and it is forward-looking in that it examines the insights and research themes that are offered by economists to investigate religion globally in the modern world. Several factors have influenced the economics of religion: (1) new developments in theoretical models including spatial models of religious markets and evolutionary models of religious traits; (2) empirical work that addresses innovatively econometric identification in examining causal influences on religious behavior; (3) new research in the economic history of religion that considers religion as an independent, rather than a dependent, variable; and (4) more studies of religion outside the Western world. Based on these developments, this paper discusses four themes--first, secularization, pluralism, regulation, and economic growth; second, religious markets, club goods, differentiated products, and networks; third, identification including secular competition and charitable giving; and fourth, conflict and cooperation in developing societies. In reviewing this paradoxically ancient yet burgeoning field, this paper puts forward unanswered questions for scholars of the economics of religion to reflect upon in years to come.
Z12|Review of Cultural Evolution: Society, Technology, Language, and Religion Edited by Peter J. Richerson and Morten H. Christiansen|Peter J. Richerson and Morten H. Christiansen have assembled a compelling picture of the evolution of societies, technology, language, and religion--with culture at the epicenter. The book is a must-have for economists and any other social scientists interested in the evolution of behavior. Using the book as a starting point, this article sums up what cultural evolution can teach us about these four major aspects of human behavior. Each topic is also linked to the relevant empirical research in economics. Directions for future research integrating cultural evolution into an economic framework are also explored.
Z12|Mindful Economics: The Production, Consumption, and Value of Beliefs|In this paper, we provide a perspective into the main ideas and findings emerging from the growing literature on motivated beliefs and reasoning. This perspective emphasizes that beliefs often fulfill important psychological and functional needs of the individual. Economically relevant examples include confidence in ones' abilities, moral self-esteem, hope and anxiety reduction, social identity, political ideology, and religious faith. People thus hold certain beliefs in part because they attach value to them, as a result of some (usually implicit) tradeoff between accuracy and desirability. In a sense, we propose to treat beliefs as regular economic goods and assets--which people consume, invest in, reap returns from, and produce, using the informational inputs they receive or have access to. Such beliefs will be resistant to many forms of evidence, with individuals displaying non-Bayesian behaviors such as not wanting to know, wishful thinking, and reality denial.
Z12|Religion and the Family: The Case of the Amish|I construct a model of religion as an institution that provides community enforcement of contracts within families. Family altruism implies that family members cannot commit to reporting broken contracts to the community, so the community must monitor contract performance as well as in icting punishment. The community has less information than family members, and so community monitoring is ine cient. I provide evidence from a study of Amish institutions, including qualitative evidence from sociological accounts and quantitative evidence from a novel dataset covering nearly the entire Amish population of Holmes county, Ohio. I nd that 1) Amish households are not unitary, 2) the Amish community helps to support families by in icting punishments on wayward family members, 3) without the community Amish people have di culty committing to punishing family members, and 4) Amish community membership strengthens family ties, while otherwise similar religious communities in which there is less need for exchange between family members have rules that weaken family ties. My model has implications for understanding selection into religious practice and the persistence of culture.
Z12|Causes and consequences of the Protestant Reformation|The Protestant Reformation is one of the defining events of the last millennium. Nearly 500 years after the Reformation, its causes and consequences have seen a renewed interest in the social sciences. Research in economics, sociology, and political science increasingly uses detailed individual-level, city-level, and regional-level data to identify drivers of the adoption of the Reformation, its diffusion pattern, and its socioeconomic consequences. We take stock of this research, pointing out what we know and what we do not know and suggesting the most promising areas for future research.
Z12|Long-Run Development and the New Cultural Economics| This paper reviews recent economics literature on culture, with an emphasis on its relation to the field of long-run growth and development. It examines the key issues debated in the new cultural economics: causal effects of culture on economic outcomes, the origins and social costs of culture, as well as cultural transmission, persistence, and change. Some of these topics are illustrated in application to the economic analysis of envy-related culture.
Z12|Wpływ zasad religijnych na ukształtowanie systemu rachunkowości / The Influence of Religious Principles on the Formation of the Accounting System|Undoubtedly, such factors as different cultural background affects ‘the shape’ of economy. The impact of cultural factors on the economy, as well as its specific fields (particularly accounting), has been studied by, among others, Mueller, Hofstede and Gray. Reflections on the topic were also conducted in Polish literature, although relatively late. One of the cultural factors is, beyond doubt, religion, forming some ethical attitudes through the transfer of certain values, which become a guide to individual actions, and exerting an obvious influence on the applicable standards in a society. The author does not pretend to consider the relations between religion and ethics, in the article only issues concerning possible to demonstrate influence of religious norms on accounting are raised. The aim is briefly to discuss the impact of Christianity, Islam and Confucianism on accounting systems and practices, based on literature studies. In conclusion, the question arises about the sense of the convergence of accounting standards, at least in the context of the current efforts undertaken in this field.
Z12|Myśl ekonomiczna kalwinizmu / The Economic Thought of Calvinism|The aim of the paper is to present the economic thoughts of John Calvin and his followers, referring to current issues, such as money lending, usury, or work. The latter, according to the famous thesis of Max Weber, received spiritual value by acting as a bridge between God's will and daily life. The hypothesis of this article differs somewhat from this conviction, assuming that the main economic elements of Calvinist thought have been the consequence of the release of temporal realities from the influence of the direct action of God, according to the protestant theology of the radical separation of nature and grace. Initiated by Protestantism, the dichotomy of nature and grace seems to have important consequences for economic thought. The salvific dimension of human fate remained in the hands of God, he depends entirely on its favour in connection with the dogma of predestination. In the earthly life, a human being was treated as a part of nature, his survival depended on skill and determination. in the struggle with nature, devoid of the grace of God, ruled by the law of necessity. Survival and a better life depended primarily on human labour and effort. The flourishing of economic life has resulted not only from the ethical role of work, but also from the fact that it was no longer inhibited by religious restrictions. Thus, modern man was born, more and more aware of his subjectivity, subordinating nature to himself building the human world in place of the natural world. Building a modern society and economy is part of the Protestant ethos of mastering nature.
Z12|Ekonomia personalistyczna jako proba integracji etyki i ekonomii na gruncie idei osoby / Personalist Economics as an Attempt to Integrate Ethics and Economics on the Basis of the Idea of a Person|The aim of the paper is an attempt to show that the personalist economy – by referring to the idea of a person, containing and expressing all the dimensions of being human in relation to the world of people and things – provides the ability to integrate issues of ethics and economics. To achieve this goal, first, the concept of personalist economics will be presented. Then, ideas common for economics and the ethics of space, which can be a basis for integrating their issues, will be identified and characterized. Finally, the author tries to present the consequences which may result from such an integration, both for the economy as a science and as a practice of everyday life.
Z12|Kategoria moral capital w etyce spoleczno-gospodarczej / The Concept of Moral Capital in the Social-Economic Ethics|The theory of human capital is a vital common point of economics and social-economic ethics. In the economic literature there are two accounts of human capital. In the first account, the human capital is the human himself, as a creator of goods and services (A. Smith, J.S. Mill, T.W. Schultz). In the other account, the capital consists of the skills, abilities, knowledge, energy and health that the human possesses (D. Begg, J.B. Say, G.S. Becker). In economic ethics, human capital is profoundly analysed in relation to economic growth. However, the growth depends not only on the physical and mental health of businesspersons and employees, their education and professional skills, but also on their moral development. The category of human capital – although it remains quite trendy – gets interpreted in reductionist ways, i.e. in economic dimensions only, whereas the human factor in the economy should be extended to the category of moral capital. These days, the concept of moral capital begins to play a very serious role in the foundations of social sciences. The objectives of this paper are: to compare different theories of human capital, to emphasize the need for a comprehensive account of the subject, and to defend a thesis that moral capital resources support business efficiency.
Z12|Duch demokratycznego kapitalizmu Michaela Novaka. Jego analiza i ocena w kontekście etyki chrześcijańskiej / The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism of Michael Novak. An Analysis and Evaluation in the Context of Christian Ethics|The paper refers to Michael Novak’s book The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism. In his book Novak advances, among others, the thesis that in the light of the encyclical Laborem Exercens, published by John Paul II (1981), one can speak about some converging elements of Catholic and liberal social thought, e.g.: the creativity of modern labour, which would reflect, however, in the two doctrines the theological symbols of the Creator and His creation. But this paper cools down the enthusiasm of Novak and in six analysed aspects seeks to show that, despite some convergence in the phraseology between “the spirit of democratic capitalism” and “the spirit of Christian ethics”, there extends between them an essential abyss, which is the result of basing each “spirit” on different models of ethics.
Z12|Wprowadzenie do problemu ubostwa w ujeciu Amartyi Kumara Sena. Wymiar etyczny / Introduction to the Problem of Poverty by Amartya Kumar Sen. The Ethical Dimension|On the threshold of the 21st century the problem of poverty has not been dealt with yet. The world constantly suffers hunger, and many people have no access to running water or education. This raises fundamental question, which have bothered economy researchers for centuries: What determines the wealth of some countries, and the poverty of others? One of the contemporary researchers analysing the causes of poverty and development barriers is Indian economist Amartya Sen. Referring to the socio-economic theory of Sen, the author indicates that modernity implies the need for reflection on the definition of poverty. The author attempts to justify the thesis which focuses on the dissonance between the evaluation concepts of good and evil with objective economic factors which define poverty. The author claims that the definition of poverty should be grounded in considerations concerning good and evil in a specific time, as well as cultural and historical context.
Z12|The Moral and Political Dimension of Economics. The Fact-Value Dichotomy|Since the neoclassical school, the separation between facts and values, is and ought, positive and normative, has become a concern in conventional economic analyses. Economics should focus on facts, and present general principles, leaving the choice of various technical alternatives to policy makers. This article addresses the following questions: can economics, seen as a positive science, be separated from the political dimension? Is it possible to separate facts from values or are they necessarily intertwined? After showing how the separation between economics and moral philosophy unfolded throughout the history of economic thought, the article analyses the factvalue dichotomy discussion and concludes that facts and values are necessarily intertwined. Then, the article shows that the premises and theories of conventional economic theories contain hidden values, despite being presented as universal truths on which policies are based, and thus fail to discuss the various perspectives of the problems. Reviving a tradition commenced by Aristotle, the article concludes by arguing that economics is necessarily moral and political. However, the acknowledgement of the normative nature of economics cannot compromise the pursuit of objectivity.
Z12|Secularization And Long-Run Economic Growth|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12242-abs-0001""> This paper integrates a simple theory of identity choice into a framework of endogenous economic growth to explain how secularization can be both cause and consequence of economic development. A secular identity allows an individual to derive more pleasure from consumption than religious individuals, leading secular individuals to work harder and to save more in order to experience this pleasure from consumption. These activities are conducive to economic growth. Higher income makes consumption more affordable and increases the appeal of a secular identity for the next generation. An extension of the basic model investigates the Protestant Reformation as an intermediate stage during the take-off to growth. Another extension introduces intergenerationally dependent religious preferences and demonstrates how a social multiplier amplifies the speed of secularization. (JEL N30, O10, O40, Z12, Z13)"
Z12|Can Islamic Injunctions Indemnify the Structural Flaws of Securitized Debt?|Securitization enhances liquidity of debt contracts. However, its structural deficiency at origination has led to the freezing of its secondary market and failure of institutions holding the collateral. This paper builds on key cultural (i.e., Islamic) rulings to rectify flaws entrenched in securitized debt stemming from asymmetric information and agency issues. These injunctions help in the efficient underwriting of debt contracts across the globe to: (i) redeem its ‘toxicity’; (ii) guarantee liquidity; (iii) alleviate fragility of the financial system;and (iv) promote economic growth.Finally, this study promotes a rethink of the current ‘Islamic’ financial system from a narrow literalist juridical perspective to one that is grounded in financial economics
Z12|Risk management and capital adequacy in Turkish participation and conventional banks: A comparative stress testing analysis|In this study, we investigate changes in banks' capital adequacy ratio (CAR) under different stress scenarios and examine the results by comparing conventional banks to participation banks in Turkey. Our results report that the capital adequacy ratio of the banks declines substantially given the stress scenarios. We find that participation banks in Turkey suffer more in declined capital adequacy ratio compared to conventional banks. Our findings reveal that participation banks in Turkey are more sensitive to sudden changes in exchange rates and increased non-performing loans. However, this sensitivity is in regards to capital adequacy, not profit. Overall, our study shows the effect of stress in the banking sector by contributing to the existing literature.
Z12|Racial Group Affinity and Religious Giving: Evidence from Congregation-Level Panel Data|Since giving to religious organizations constitutes a substantial portion of total charitable giving, an understanding of the determinants of religious giving is a vital policy concern. Drawing on a novel congregation-level panel dataset, we examine whether religious giving is driven by preferences for racial group affinity, that is, loyalty to one’s own racial group. To address endogeneity concerns, we combine a fixed effects estimation framework with an instrumental variable approach. We find robust evidence consistent with the racial group affinity motive: a decrease in the percent of whites in the local community is ceteris paribus associated with a decrease in the total giving receipts collected by predominantly white congregations. The magnitude of this effect does not vary with the extent of racial residential segregation in the community. The effect, however, is driven by the congregations in urban (as opposed to rural) communities. We offer a possible explanation for this result.
Z12|Religion and Depression in Adolescence|The probability of being depressed increases dramatically during adolescence and is linked to a range of adverse outcomes. Many studies show a correlation between religiosity and mental health, yet the question remains whether the link is causal. The key issue is selection into religiosity. We exploit plausibly random variation in adolescents’ peers to shift religiosity independently of other individual-level unobservables that might affect depression. Using a nationally representative sample of adolescents in the US, we find robust effects of religiosity on depression, that are particularly strong for the most depressed. These effects are not a result of social context. Instead, we find that religiosity buffers against stressors, possibly through improved social and psychological resources. This has implications especially for effective mental health policy.
Z12|Religion and Depression in Adolescence|Depression is the leading cause of illness and disability in adolescence. Many studies show a correlation between religiosity and mental health, yet the question remains whether the relationship is causal. We exploit within-school variation in adolescents’ peers to deal with selection into religiosity. We find robust effects of religiosity on depression that are stronger for the most depressed. These effects are not driven by the school social context; depression spreads among close friends rather than through broader peer groups that affect religiosity. Exploration of mechanisms suggests that religiosity buffers against stressors in ways in which school activities and friendships do not.
Z12|How Fundamentalism Takes Root: A Simulation Study|We report agent-based simulations of religiosity dynamics in a spatially dispersed population. Agents' religiosity responds to neighbours via pairwise interactions as well as via club goods effects. A simulation run is deemed fundamentalist if the final distribution contains a sizable minority of very high religiosity together with a majority of lesser religiosity. Such simulations are more prevalent when parameter values shift from values reflecting traditional societies towards values reflecting the modern world. The simulations suggest that the rise of fundamentalism in the modern world is boosted by greater real income, lower relative prices for secular goods, less substitutability between religious and secular goods, and less time spent with neighbours. Surprisingly, the simulations suggest little role for the rise of long distance communication and transportation.
Z12|Gender equality in Muslim-majority countries|Discrimination against women has been documented in Muslim-majority countries. However, constitutions among Muslim-majority countries differ. By using women’s rights indicators and exploiting cross-country variation, we find that discrimination against women is more pronounced in countries where Islam is the source of legislation. Constitutions have changed in only four Muslim-majority countries since 1980. We discuss anecdotal evidence concerning the extent to which women’s rights changed as a consequence of new constitutions. Empirical studies should therefore distinguish between types of Muslim-majority countries.
Z12|Malthus Meets Luther: The Economics Behind the German Reformation|The Reformation provided a powerful source of legitimacy for secularization of governance and enabled the regional authorities to change the institutional structure to eliminate the inefficiencies under the prevailing (Catholic) regime. We investigate this idea in a simple model of regime change and show that the regions where the prevailing institutions are less appropriate, i.e. poorer regions with greater economic potential, should have been more likely to adopt the Reformation. Using detailed data on religious denominations, city characteristics and exogenous measures of agricultural potential, we empirically confirm this hypothesis for the cities in the 16th century Holy Roman Empire. This finding points to an economic rationale of the adoption of Protestantism as a vehicle of institutional change.
Z12|Minorities, Human Capital and Long-Run Development: Persistence of Armenian and Greek Influence in Turkey|We study the long-term economic legacy of highly-skilled minorities a century after their wholesale expulsion. Using mass expulsions of Armenian and Greek communities of the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th century as a unique natural experiment of history, we show that districts with greater presence of Armenian and Greek minorities at the end of the 19th century are systematically more densely populated, more urbanized, and more developed today. Results are robust to accounting for an extensive set of geographical and historical factors of development and minority settlement patterns. Matching type estimators, instrumental variable regressions, and a sub-province level case study corroborate our findings. Importantly, we provide evidence on the channels of persistence. Armenian and Greek contribution to long-run development is largely mediated by their legacy on local human capital accumulation. In comparison, the mediating effect of minority asset transfer on development appears less important.
Z12|Religion and the Family: The Case of the Amish| I construct a model of religion as an institution that provides community enforcement of contracts within families. Family altruism implies that family members cannot commit to reporting broken contracts to the community, so the community must monitor contract performance as well as inflicting punishment. The community has less information than family members, and so community monitoring is inefficient. I provide evidence from a study of Amish institutions, including qualitative evidence from sociological accounts and quantitative evidence from a novel dataset covering nearly the entire Amish population of Holmes county, Ohio. I find that 1) Amish households are not unitary, 2) the Amish community helps to support families by inflicting punishments on wayward family members, 3) without the community Amish people have difficulty committing to punishing family members, and 4) Amish community membership strengthens family ties, while otherwise similar religious communities in which there is less need for exchange between family members have rules that weaken family ties. My model has implications for understanding selection into religious practice and the persistence of culture.
Z12|Religion, Division of Labor and Conflict: Anti-Semitism in German Regions over 600 Years|Anti-Semitism continues to be a widespread societal problem rooted deeply in history. Using novel city-level data from Germany for more than 2,000 cities and county-level data, we study the role of economic incentives in shaping the co-existence of Jews, Catholics and Protestants. The Catholic ban on usury gave Jews living in Catholic regions a specific advantage in the moneylending sector. Following the Protestant Reformation (1517), the Jews lost this advantage in regions that became Protestant but not in those regions that remained Catholic. We show that 1) the Protestant Reformation induced a change in the geography of anti-Semitism with persecutions of Jews and anti-Jewish publications becoming more common in Protestant areas relative to Catholic areas; 2) this change was more pronounced in cities where Jews had already established themselves as moneylenders; 3) the Reformation reduced the specialization of Jews in the financial sector in Protestant regions but not in Catholic regions. We interpret these findings as evidence that, following the Protestant Reformation, the Jews living in Protestant regions lost their comparative advantage in lending. This change exposed them to competition with the Christian majority leading, eventually, to an increase in anti-Semitism.
Z12|Sandu Tudor, The Mentor And The Catalyst Of Spiritual Movement From Antim. The Evolution Of Association „Burning Altar”|The present paper, as announced the title, it proposes to treat the Association „Burning Altar”, legal stage spiritual movement whose mentor is Sandu Tudor. The „Burning Altar” movement was a group of some of the most important intellectuals (theologians and laity) of the era that, given the deep ties of friendship between them, come together around a common spiritual pursuits. The catalyst was Sandu Tudor. Ostracized under communist totalitarianism, both secular intellectuals and clerics were aware of their duty to discover the deep spiritual levels of Christianity to provide a possibility of human survival as a person in the face of aggression an aberrant modernity. In our attempt to reconstruct as truthful image of „Burning Altar”, of that time, we conjunction the documents from the archive C.N.S.A.S. with memoir literature but also with the interview of the only person who,nowadays, can testify about what the prayer of the heart meant for students, but also for „elders” integrated in this spiritual movement - Father Nicolaie (Nicholas) Bordașiu.
Z12|The Dispute Between Political Theology And The Politics Of Theology In The Twenty-First Century On The Meanings Of The Postmodern Globalizing And Individualistic Society And The Christian Personalist Globality|Upon the dawn of postmodernity, in the twenty-first century, we witness the emergence of a new way of thinking and of new forms of culture and life, under the ideology of globalism, whose dominance is given by the practicality and utility related to civilization, and under globality, which is the cultural aspect of globalization, pertaining to the field of culture. The two dimensions of globalization and globality, civilizational and cultural, will (re)question the principle relationship between Christianity and the new postmodern globalizing utopia, requiring to (re)consider the sense and presence of Christianity within the world, and the appropriate sociological figure of the Church, within the new reality of global and globalized humanity, in the postmodern public space. This paper deals with this ideology - globalism and the cultural manifestation of globality, and with the Orthodox answer to the new challenge of individualism and postmodern globalizing (neo)collectivism.
Z12|Religious Seduction in Autocracy: A Theory Inspired by History|The relationship between religion and politics is explored from a theoretical standpoint, assuming that religious clerics can be seduced by the ruler acting as an autocrat. The comparative effects of decentralized versus centralized religions on the optimal level of cooperation between the autocrat and the religious clerics, which itself impinges upon political stability, is analysed. The paper shows that the presence of a decentralized body of clerics makes autocratic regimes more unstable. It also shows that in time of stability, the level of reforms is larger with a centralized religion than with a decentralized one. When the autocrat in the decentralized case pushes more reforms than in the centralized one, he always does so at the cost of stability. Historical case studies are presented that serve to illustrate the main results.
Z12|Persuasion: A Case Study of Papal Influences on Fertility-Related Beliefs and Behavior|We study the persuasive impacts of non-informative communication on the short-run beliefs and long-run behavior of individuals. We do so in the context of the Papal visit to Brazil in October 1991, in which persuasive messages related to fertility were salient in Papal speeches during the visit. We use individual's exposure to such messages to measure how persuasion shifts short-run beliefs such as intentions to contracept and long-term fertility outcomes such as the timing and total number of births. To measure the short-run causal impact of persuasion, we exploit the fact the Brazil 1991 DHS was fielded in the weeks before, during, and after the Papal visit. We use this fortuitous timing to identify that persuasion significantly reduced individual intentions to contracept by more than 40 percent relative to pre-visit levels, and increased the frequency of unprotected sex by 30 percent. We measure the long-run causal impacts of persuasion on fertility outcomes using later DHS surveys to conduct an event study analysis on births in a five-year window on either side of the 1991 Papal visit. Estimating a hazard model of fertility, we find a significant change in births 9 months post-visit, corresponding to a 1.6 percent increase in the aggregate birth cohort. Our final set of results examine the very long-run impact of persuasion and document the impacts to be on the timing of births rather than on total fertility.
Z12|Adherence to Cultural Norms and Economic Incentives: Evidence from Fertility Timing Decisions|I analyze the interplay between culture and economic incentives in decision-making. To this end, I study birth timing decisions of second generation migrant women to France and the US. Only the probability to have three or more children increases with the home country fertility norm, whereas the timing of the first two births is either unaffected or negatively correlated. I propose a model that rationalizes these findings in which decisions are the result of a trade-off between an economic cost-benefit analysis and a cultural norm. The model predicts that decisions with a higher cost of deviation from the economic optimum should be less prone to cultural influence. This is consistent with substantial evidence showing that the timing of the first birth bears much larger costs for mothers in terms of labor market outcomes than that of subsequent births.
Z12|The Relationship between Word of Mouth and Consumer Buying Behavior Mediating by Religious Orientation in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia|This paper investigated the relationship of word of mouth (WOM), media and consumer buying behavior (CBB) to leapfrog marketing which is strongly related with the issues of psychology and sociology. The prime objective of present research is to analyze the market and the consumer behavior by taking religious orientation (RO) as a mediator which is found to be statistically significant. An extensive literature review related to the RO, WOM, CBB and media has been carried out by the researcher. In addition, present study used survey questionnaire in order to collect quantitative data from the respondents who have been using cars in “Riyadh,” the capital city of Saudi Arabia, for highlighting the factors affecting cars buying behavior of consumers. The data was collected from car agencies in Riyadh indicating that RO play a significant role between WOM and media in the field of CBB. The limitations of this research and direction for future research are also given at the end.
Z12|Can Islamic injunctions indemnify the structural flaws of securitized debt?|Securitization enhances liquidity of debt contracts. However, its structural deficiency at origination has led to the freezing of its secondary market and failure of institutions holding the collateral. This paper builds on key cultural (i.e., Islamic) rulings to rectify flaws entrenched in securitized debt stemming from asymmetric information and agency issues. These injunctions help in the efficient underwriting of debt contracts across the globe to: (i) redeem its ‘toxicity’; (ii) guarantee liquidity; (iii) alleviate fragility of the financial system; and (iv) promote economic growth. Finally, this study promotes a rethink of the current ‘Islamic’ financial system from a narrow literalist juridical perspective to one that is grounded in financial economics.
Z12|Witchcraft beliefs and the erosion of social capital: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa and beyond|This paper examines the relationship between witchcraft beliefs, a deep-rooted cultural phenomenon, and various elements of social capital. Using novel survey data from nineteen countries in Sub-Saharan Africa we establish a robust negative association between the prevalence of witchcraft beliefs and multiple measures of trust which holds after accounting for country fixed effects and potential confounding factors at the individual, regional, and ethnic-group levels. This finding extends to other metrics of social capital, namely charitable giving and participation in religious group activities. Such coexistence of witchcraft beliefs and antisocial attitudes stands in stark contrast to a well-explored alternative cultural equilibrium characterized by religious prosociality. Evidence from societies beyond Africa shows that in preindustrial communities where witchcraft is believed to be an important cause of illness, mistrust and other antisocial traits are inculcated since childhood. Furthermore, second-generation immigrants in Europe originating from countries with widespread witchcraft beliefs are generally less trusting.
Z12|Islam, inequality and pre-industrial comparative development|This study explores the interaction between trade and geography in shaping the Islamic economic doctrine in its first few centuries. We build a model where an unequal distribution of land quality in the presence of trade opportunities conferred differential gains from trade across regions, fostering predatory behavior by groups residing in the poorly endowed territories. We show that in such an environment it was mutually beneficial to institute an economic system of income redistribution featuring income transfers in return for safe passage to conduct trade. A commitment problem, however, rendered a merely static redistribution scheme unsustainable. Islam developed a set of dynamic redistributive rules that were self-enforcing, in regions where arid lands dominated the landscape. While such principles fostered the expansion of trade within the Muslim world, they limited the accumulation of wealth by the commercial elite, shaping the economic trajectory of Islamic lands in the pre-industrial era.
Z12|Religion, discrimination and trust across three cultures|We propose that religion impacts trust and trustworthiness in ways that depend on how individuals are socially identified and connected. Religiosity and religious affiliation may serve as markers for statistical discrimination. Further, affiliation to the same religion may enhance group identity, or affiliation irrespective of creed may lend social identity, and in turn induce taste-based discrimination. Religiosity may also relate to general prejudice. We test these hypotheses across three culturally diverse countries. Participants׳ willingness to discriminate, beliefs of how trustworthy or trusting others are, as well as actual trust and trustworthiness are measured incentive compatibly. We find that interpersonal similarity in religiosity and affiliation promote trust through beliefs of reciprocity. Religious participants also believe that those belonging to some faith are trustworthier, but invest more trust only in those of the same religion—religiosity amplifies this effect. Across non-religious categories, whereas more religious participants are more willing to discriminate, less religious participants are as likely to display group biases.
Z12|Religious identity and the provision of public goods: Evidence from the Indian Princely States|This paper describes a simple model of how a ruler’s religious identity affects public goods provision. Our primary insight is that rulers reduce public goods expenditures to a greater degree when there are privately-provided substitutes excludable by religion.The basic idea is that if the good is provided privately to the ruler’s co-religionists, the ruler faces weaker incentives to provide this public good because his co-religionists receive lower marginal utility from its provision. Testing such a conjecture is an empirical challenge, however, since the religious identity of rulers rarely varies over time and place. We address this problem by exploiting variation in the religion of rulers in the Indian Princely States. Using data from the 1911 and 1931 Indian censuses, we find that Muslim-ruled states had lower Hindu literacy but had no significant impact on Muslim literacy. This result is consistent with our model, as Muslim religious schools provided a substitute for public schools that served both Hindus and Muslims. The model is further substantiated by the fact that the religion of the ruler had no statistically significant impact on railroad ownership or post office provision, neither of which had privately-provided substitutes.
Z12|Social constraints and women's education: Evidence from Afghanistan under radical religious rule|We analyze how growing up under Taliban rule affects Afghan women's educational attainments and subsequent labor market and fertility outcomes. While in power from 1996 to 2001, the Taliban ruled a large portion of the Afghan territory and introduced a ban on girls’ education. Using data from the National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment survey, we rely on the fact that, depending on their year of birth and province of residence, individuals differed in the number of years they were exposed to the Taliban government while of school age. Our difference-in-differences estimates show that an additional year of exposure to the Taliban occupation while of school age reduces a woman's probability of completing basic education by about two percentage points. The effects on educational outcomes are larger in Pashtun districts and rural areas. These findings are not due to the 1992 introduction of the provisional Islamist government that preceded the Taliban, cultural differences related to ethnicity, or varying emigration rates across provinces. The estimates are robust to differences across provinces in the number of violent events before, during, and after the Taliban occupation. Women exposed to the Taliban’s radical religious rule while they were of school age are also less likely to be employed outside of the household and more likely to have an agricultural job within the household. For fertility choices, exposure to the Taliban occupation increases total number of children and lowers age at first marriage. We discuss our empirical findings against theoretical economic literature on radical religious groups (e.g., Iannaccone, 1992; Berman, 2000).
Z12|An economic theory of religious belief|In this paper I consider how individuals allocate their time between church attendance (and other religious activities) and secular leisure activities. Moreover, individuals use a cognitive style, which is either intuitive-believing or reflective-analytical. I assume that the full benefit from religious activities is achieved by intuitive believers. The model predicts that, ceteris paribus, wealthier individuals and individuals with higher cognitive ability are more likely to abandon the intuitive-believing cognitive style. They may continue to attend church but do so less frequently than intuitive believers. In general equilibrium, there exists a locally stable steady state where believing and frequent church attendance is widespread across the social strata. A sufficiently large negative shock (e.g. the Enlightenment, repeal of Sunday shopping laws), however, initiates the gradual secularization of society.
Z12|Religious origins of democracy & dictatorship|Weber considered the Protestant work ethic the foundation of modern capitalism. I extend Weber's theory by arguing that states with predominantly Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Muslim populations have had a stronger inclination toward underdevelopment and dictatorship than states with Protestant or Jewish majorities. This is the case because their respective religious collectives (monastery, tariqa) promote the hierarchical provision of common goods at the expense of market incentives. I define the aforementioned three religions as collectivist, in contrast to Protestantism and Judaism, which I define as individualist. I provide a historical overview that designates the Jewish kibbutz as the collective of democracy and the Eastern Orthodox monastery as the collective of dictatorship. Focusing on collectivist economies, I find that modernization, as a credible commitment to the improved future provision of public goods, occurs when the threat of a radical government is imminent and when the leader has high extraction of rents from the economy. The emergence of radical governments is more likely in collectivist than in individualist economies. Historical illustrations from collectivist economies include the Russian Revolution, the Islamic Revolution in Iran, and the postwar welfare state in Western Europe.
Z12|The economics of faith: using an apocalyptic prophecy to elicit religious beliefs in the field|We model religious faith as a “demand for beliefs,” following the logic of the Pascalian wager. We show how standard experimental interventions linking financial consequences to falsifiable religious statements can elicit and characterize beliefs. We implemented this approach with members of a group that expected the “End of the World” to occur on May 21, 2011 by varying monetary prizes payable before and after May 21st. To our knowledge, this is the first incentivized elicitation of religious beliefs ever conducted. The results suggest that the members held extreme, sincere beliefs that were unresponsive to experimental manipulations in price.
Z12|The composite risk-sharing finance index: Implications for Islamic finance|In policy-making, assessment of where a country stands relative to other countries is important to achieve desired goals, to understand how much the current policy implementation diverts from the target, and to understand main obstacles on reaching at the ends in the light of the comparators and the benchmark. This study evaluates relative standing of countries with respect to their financial system's friendliness for risk-sharing finance, the concept which forms the core foundation of Islamic finance. A composite risk-sharing finance friendliness index is developed to compare and rank the countries with regard to their level of their support and adoption of risk-sharing finance. Although, there have been attempts to develop such index, this study is novel in the Islamic finance literature in the sense that it brings the factor analysis and non-linear weights into the picture to come up with an objective and convincing composite index with objective weights. The composite index also allows us to look into the relative contribution of components, namely, Institutional Scaffolding, Governance and Legal Environment, Financial Sector Development and Inclusion. The results and ranking of the countries reveal important information about the potential of developing risk-sharing finance and financial products in different countries. The results also reveal that the OIC countries are far away from meeting the basic requirements of setting-up risk-sharing finance and thus a framework for comprehensive development of Islamic finance.
Z12|Religion in the boardroom and its impact on Islamic banks' performance|The impact of board diversity, in terms of gender, race, ethnicity etc., on performance and stability of firms has been researched extensively. However, the impact of religious diversity and its impact on performance and stability has been completely ignored. This issue is quite relevant, especially for the Islamic banks because of their primary objective i.e. to be in compliant with Islamic principles in all their dealings. Taking a cue from this argument, we believe if the majority board members are Muslim it can have a positive impact on the performance as they would better understand the importance of the substance of the shari'ah compliant dealings and that can translate into good performance and make it more stable. Based on our arguments, we examined the impact of religious diversity on the performance and stability on Malaysian banks Islamic and Conventional both for the period of 9years, through 2005 to 2013. Our results from GMM estimation reveal that the religious orientation has no impact on the performance and this result is robust to various proxies. Our results imply that a non-Muslim member of the board of directors is able to run the Islamic banking business as good as a Muslim board member.
Z12|The Less Extreme, the More You Leave: Radical Islam and Willingness to Migrate|This paper studies radical Islam as a determinant of individuals’ willingness to migrate. Surprisingly, despite its relevance in the political debate, this topic has not been investigated empirically in the literature. In order to fill this gap, we develop a model of the decision to migrate focusing in particular on the role played by cultural traits. More specifically, we focus on radical Islam as a deterrent for migration. Following Berman (2003), we define radical Islam as a set of ideologies, also referred to as Political Islam, holding that Islam should guide not only personal life, but also social and political life. In our model, more radical values imply a higher psychological cost of migrating. This cost derives from the fact that connections with socio-religious friends and neighbors are generally not maintained after migration, thus deterring individuals from migrating (Mayers, 2000). We then test empirically the predictions of the model, using individual-level data from the second (2010–11) and third (2012–14) waves of the Arab Barometer. Our results suggest that, ceteris paribus, more radical individuals are less willing to migrate. This finding is robust to alternative specifications of the model and to the use of Instrumental Variables and Propensity Score Matching aimed at addressing the potential endogeneity of radical Islam. The result is also qualitatively unchanged when using aggregate data on actual outflows of migrants.
Z12|Witch Trials: Discontent in Early Modern Europe|This paper examines the relationship between income and witch trials in early modern Europe. We start by using climate data to proxy for income levels. This builds on previous work by exploiting a far richer panel dataset covering 356 regions and 260 years, including both seasonal temperature and rainfall, as well as over 30,036 witch trials newly documented for this study. We find that a one degree temperature shock leads to a near quadrupling in witch trials in any given year. The second part looks at incomes more directly, and we find that different measures of income have different effects on witch trials. Furthermore, the impact may depend on the structure of the economy and how different stakeholder groups are affected. We also present evidence that the stage in the business cycle is important in predicting witch trials, with the bottom of the business cycle coinciding with a doubling of witch trials in England.
Z12|The Influence of Religion on Grocery Shoppers’ Behavioural Intentions in Mauritius Supermarkets|"""Objective – Based on Sheth’s (1983) integrative theory of patronage preference as the central theoretical framework, this paper examines religious influences on grocery shoppers’ behavioural intentions in Mauritius. Methodology/Technique – Using stratified random sampling method a 5 point-Likert scale questionnaire was administered. Data from the random sample of 409 grocery shoppers was obtained by a computer aided telephone interview. The sample consisted of 202 Hindus, 71 Muslims and 136 Catholics represent the religious proportion of the Mauritian population. Findings – Results indicate that religious commitment significantly influences store loyalty, and complaint intentions, but have no significant impact on price sensitivity. Religious affiliation was found to have an impact on complaint intentions only. Understanding how to attract more loyal customers should be an underlying strategy for store managers rather than focusing on short-term profits. Novelty – Future research should consider how religious commitment mediates self-congruity, trust, commitment and satisfaction and their influence on behavioural intentions. This research is limited as it only considers the behavioural intentions of grocery shoppers in Mauritius. These findings address the gap in the religion domain and shed light on the value of religiosity wherein the market is highly religious as a potential marketing segmentation tool when formulating marketing tactics and implementing marketing strategies"""
Z12|The dynamics of revolutions|We study the dynamics of revolutions and mass protests. In a uni ed framework we explain three classes of observed revolutions, two of which are unexplained by earlier models: 1) a revolution initiated by extreme regime opponents dissenting greatly, later joined by moderate dissidents dissenting less; 2) a revolution initiated by moderates dissenting moderately, later joined by extremists; 3) a revolution where extreme regime opponents gradually push the freedom of speech, backed by increased dissent of mod- erates. These match the dynamics of many major revolutions, e.g., the Iranian Islamic Revolution, the fall of the USSR, the Egyptian Arab Spring and the Tiananmen-Square protests
Z12|Church Membership and Social Insurance: Evidence from the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927|Religious communities are key providers of social insurance. This paper focuses on the devastating impact of the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 to investigate how an increase in the demand for social insurance affects church membership. We find a significant increase in church membership in flooded counties. This effect is stronger in counties with severe economic losses and where access to credit was limited. We also document that fundamental denominations gained more members in flooded counties, which is consistent with the theory of club goods emphasizing the efficient provision of mutual insurance in stricter religious communities.
Z12|Adherence to Cultural Norms and Economic Incentives: Evidence from Fertility Timing Decisions|I analyze the interplay between culture and economic incentives in decision-making. To this end, I study birth timing decisions of second generation migrant women to France and the US. Only the probability to have three or more children increases with the home country fertility norm, whereas the timing of the first two births is either unaffected or negatively correlated. I propose a model that rationalizes these findings in which decisions are the result of a trade-off between an economic cost-benefit analysis and a cultural norm. The model predicts that decisions with a higher cost of deviation from the economic optimum should be less prone to cultural influence. This is consistent with substantial evidence showing that the timing of the first birth bears much larger costs for mothers in terms of labor market outcomes than that of subsequent births.
Z12|Islamism and Gender Relations in the Muslim World as Reflected in Recent World Values Survey Data|"Ever since Goldin (1995) proposed the idea that there is a U-shaped female labor force participation rate function in economic development, empirical research is stunned by the question why the countries of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) are characterized by such low rates of female labor force participation. This gap in labor economics research is all the more perplexing since gender equality, particularly in education and employment, significantly contributes to economic growth. The research strategy of the present paper is within a relatively new tradition in labor market research, initiated by the recent article by Besamusca, Tijdens, Keune and Steinmetz (2015), which does not exclude anymore the ""religious factor"" and what these authors call ""gender ideology"". Our analysis of the ""gender ideology"" of Islamism and gender values is based on an empirical analysis of World Values Survey data. In recent economic theory, Carvalho (2013) maintained that Muslim veiling is a strategy for integration, enabling women to take up outside economic opportunities while preserving their reputation within the community. The empirical data clearly support a pessimistic view. We show that Muslim Feminism, which implies according to our data analysis the rejection of the twin brothers - Islamism and the veil - and the democracy movement in the Muslim world are closely interrelated. Thus, it is imperative that Western Feminism develops solidarity with Muslim Feminism, and that labor economics does not exclude anymore ""the religious factor"" from the analytical frameworks explaining low female labor force participation rates."
Z12|Ethical strategy focus and mutual fund management: performance and persistence|Over the last few years academics and practitioners alike have been analyzing the relative performance of different types of mutual funds, with a particular emphasis on comparing the performance of conventional versus socially responsible investment (SRI). The methods and samples used, as well as the results obtained are diverse, but they generally point to the difficulties found by SRI to yield an equivalent performance as that of its conventional peers—given the investment constraints they face. In this study we focus on the comparative performance of a sample of SRI funds, which we decompose mainly into Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), environmental, and religious, and which invest in three different geographical areas. For these funds we measure not only performance but, more importantly, their persistence—i.e., whether the best (worst) funds are past winners (losers) as well. This twofold objective turns out to be essential to uncover some trends in the industry. Specifically, whereas ESG, in general, outperform their environmental peers, a deeper scrutiny focusing also on performance persistence reveals that this claim should be tempered, since investing in the best past environmental funds yields superior performance than investing in the best past ESG funds. This result, which holds for the two main geographical regions analyzed (Europe and US/Canada), would indicate that the comparison between these two types of funds is more intricate than what we might a priori expect, being particularly relevant to factor in the comparison an evaluation of performance persistence.
Z12|Ethical Screening and Financial Performance: The Case of Islamic Equity Funds|Abstract Whether ethical screening affects portfolio performance is an important question that is yet to be settled in the literature. This paper aims to shed further light on this question by examining the performance of a large global sample of Islamic equity funds (IEFs) from 1984 to 2010. We find that IEFs underperform conventional funds by an average of 40 basis points per month, consistent with the underperformance hypothesis. In line with popular media claims that Islamic funds are a safer investment, IEFs outperformed conventional funds during the recent banking crisis. However, we find no such outperformance for other crises or high volatility periods. Based on fund holdings-based data, we provide evidence of a negative curvilinear relation between fund performance and ethical screening intensity, consistent with a return trade-off to being more ethical.
Z12|A tale of minorities: evidence on religious ethics and entrepreneurship|Abstract Does Protestantism favour entrepreneurship more than Catholicism does? We provide a novel way to answer this question by comparing Protestant and Catholic minorities using Swiss census data. Exploiting the strong adhesion of religious minorities to their denomination’ ethical principles and the historical determination of the geographical distribution of denominations across Swiss cantons, we find that Protestantism is associated with a significantly higher propensity for entrepreneurship. The estimated difference ranges between 1.5 and 3.2 % points, it is larger the smaller the size of the religious minority, it is mainly driven by prime age male entrepreneurs and it stands up to a number of robustness checks. No effects are found when comparing religious majorities, suggesting that the implications of religious ethical norms on economic outcomes emerge only when such norms are fully internalized.
Z12|Suicide attacks and religious cleavages|Abstract Many experts claim that religious cleavages are one of the major reasons for suicide attacks. To test this hypothesis, we investigate whether the total number of suicide attacks per violent conflict and the annual number of suicide attacks per country are associated with simmering religious conflicts. We distinguish between two kinds of religious cleavages: cleavages at the macro level between the groups engaged in violent conflicts and cleavages at the micro or battlefield level between the actual perpetrators and victims of suicide attacks. Our results do not indicate that religious cleavages are an important precondition for the incidence of suicide attacks over the period 1981-2010.
