Z19|Does Scientific Progress Affect Culture? A Digital Text Analysis|We study the interplay between scientific progress and culture through text analysis on a corpus of about eight million books, with the use of techniques and algorithms from machine learning. We focus on a specific scientific breakthrough, the theory of evolution through natural selection by Charles Darwin, and examine the diffusion of certain key concepts that characterized this theory in the broader cultural discourse and social imaginary. We find that some concepts in Darwin’s theory, such as Evolution, Survival, Natural Selection and Competition diffused in the cultural discourse immediately after the publication of On the Origins of Species. Other concepts such as Selection and Adaptation were already present in the cultural dialogue. Moreover, we document semantic changes for most of these concepts over time. Our findings thus show a complex relation between two key factors of long-term economic growth – science and culture. Considering the evolution of these two factors jointly can offer new insights to the study of the determinants of economic development, and machine learning is a promising tool to explore these relationships.
Z19|«Hieroglyphs of protest»: Internet Memes and Protest Movement in Russia|Political Internet meme is an underresearched contemporary phenomenon situated at the interface of digital media and political communication. Regarded as a unit of online transmission of cultural information, such a meme can be considered, on the on hand, as a manifestation of post-folklore, and on the other hand, as a mechanism of political participation and construction of social media users’ collective identity. The article presents the results of investigation into Internet memes generated by protest discourse in Runet (Russian Internet). Examination of a vast amount of Internet content allows drawing conclusions as to the thematic emphases of protest actions represented in Runet’s memosphere and to the specifics of the image of Russian protest as reflected in memes
Z19|Unemployment Rate, Population Density and Crime Rate in Punjab (Pakistan): An Empirical Analysis|This article has examined the impact of unemployment, population density and amount of remittances, industrialization on crime rate among the districts of Punjab, Pakistan. The data has been composed from Pakistan Bureau of Statistics, the Multiple Indicator Cluster survey (MICS), Punjab Development Statistics (2018). The Johansen cointegration method has been applied for examining the relationship among variables. The results show that unemployment and population density have a positive impact on crime rate among the districts of Punjab, Pakistan. The outcomes reveal that the amount of remittances, industrialization and social infrastructure have a negative and significant impact on crime rate among the districts of Punjab. This study recommends that for reduction in crimes, the government of Punjab should control unemployment and population density and the same time enhance industrialization, social infrastructure with the amount of remittances. On the basis of previous literature and our findings, it has been concluded that unemployment is the mother of crime.
Z19|Turkish University Students’ Self-Perceptions of Aging: An Analysis Over Socio-Economic Dimensions|University students represent nearly more than half of the youth population (age group of 15-24) in Turkey. Meanwhile, the latest demographic data shows that they will constitute a majority of the elder generation in the context of the recent rapid aging trend in the near future. That said, and although the number of studies related to the students’ perceptions of old ages are increasing in recent years, there is still room to extend our understanding of the influence of demographics, social and economic patterns on students’ self perceptions of old age. To investigate the Turkish students’ views towards their own 65+ ages, a questionary is applied to 450 students from two different universities located in different regions in Turkey. Survey analysis shows that, almost 85 percent of “engineering” and “economics and administrative science” faculty students describe health and elderly care as the two major concerns in their old ages. On the contrary, answers of the two faculties differentiated clearly in terms of happiness, ability to save more and living with someone else in their old ages. Also, students accept retirement period as a reflection of aging and most of the students claim they had never thought about the aging process before. Yet, female and male students describe the meaning of retirement as the most comfortable period and a period that makes no sense, respectively.
Z19|The Origins of Common Identity: Division, Homogenization Policies and Identity Formation in Alsace-Lorraine|We exploit the fact that disagreements in the German leadership after the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 led to a quasi-exogenous division of Alsace and Lorraine to provide rare evidence of group identity formation within historically homogeneous regions. In line with the rejection-identification hypothesis, people in the treated area which experienced a change in nation-status and were exposed to repressive homogenization policies express a stronger regional identity and support more regional autonomy today. On average, subjects with a stronger regional also express a stronger European identity, which we exploit in a regression discontinuity design at the municipal level to reveal whether these identity differences are causal. We find that support for the European Union is significantly stronger in two crucial referenda, a result that is robust across different specifications and bandwidths, and not driven by language differences, large agglomerations or distance to foreign countries. The effect seems to be the strongest for the first two age cohorts after World War II and diminishes for later generations.
Z19|The Origins of Common Identity: Evidence from Alsace-Lorraine|The quasi-exogenous division of the French regions Alsace and Lorraine after the Franco-Prussian War allows us to provide evidence about group identity formation within historically homogeneous regions. Using several measures of stated and revealed preferences spanning over half a century, we show that being exposed to occupation and repression for many decades caused a persistently stronger regional identity. The geographical RDD results are robust across all specifications. We document two mechanisms using data on regional newspapers and regionalist parties. The differences are strongest for the first two age cohorts after WWII and associated with preferences for more regional decision-making.
Z19|Local Culture, Internal Marketing and Employee Satisfaction in Improving Financial Performance: A Case Study of Microfinance Institutions in Bali|Objective – Local culture acts as a bridge in empowering the resources owned by a firm so they can operate harmoniously. This research tests the theory of local culture, internal marketing, and employee satisfaction in an effort to improve financial performance. Methodology/Technique – The research is supported by the existing phenomenon of increasing credit issues. The data is obtained from 1,364 questionnaires and is quantitatively analyzed through Structural Equation Modelling. A qualitative analysis is used to deepen the anomaly relationship through a phenomenological approach. Findings – The result show that local culture becomes the organizational culture, but has no direct influence on the improvement of performance. Indicators related to the environment have a very low contribution to the development of organizational culture. Internal marketing indicators, such as recruitment processes and internal communication, have a significant contribution on the achievement of financial performance. Further, employee satisfaction has a significant impact on the achievement of financial performance. Novelty – This study develops a new model that can be used to enhance financial performance. The integration of local culture into internal marketing and employee satisfaction is a relatively novel invention.
Z19|Some Remarks on Russian Reception of Martin Heidegger’S Philosophy in Connection with the Discussion of “Black Notebooks”|This article in the form of “reflections” is devoted mainly to the image-building of Heidegger in Russia as a thinker of Being, a conservative critic of late modernity and a “post” philosopher. On the one hand, due to French post-modernism influence on late Soviet and post-Soviet philosophy Russia has developed a special interest in Heidegger’s deconstruction theory. On the other hand, the reception of Heidegger’s criticism of European nihilism, totalitarianism and machine technology as the manifestations of modernity has shaped significantly the account of the “political”. The specifics of Russian reception of Heidegger can also be traced in the rejection of strict division between the “core” of Heidegger’s philosophy and “accidental” conditions related to social and political aspects of his work in 1930s. The current discussion about recently published “Black notebooks” shows not only the fact of existence of a separate language of description and analysis in Russian philosophical field but also an original tendency to holistic consideration of Heidegger’s thinking including not only his existential and historical reflections but also political passages and criticism of civilizational discourse. In addition to the reviews of “Black notebooks” by N.V. Motroshilova, V.V. Mironov and D. Mironova in the last year’s issues of the magazine “Voprosy filosofii” there are earlier works by N.V. Motroshilova, V.V. Bibikhin and A.V. Gulyga related to the debate on Heidegger’s political and ideological commitment which are in focus of attention
Z19|Making Politics Attractive: Political Satire And Exposure To Political Information In New Media Environment In Russia|There is an extensive body of research devoted to how political satire affects political knowledge and political behavior. Extant studies are focused on political satire in democratic countries and do not pay enough attention to authoritarian regimes. This study extends this research to non-democratic regimes, while also adding to it by exploring the extent to which the use of political satire encourages exposure to political information. We conduct an online experiment on the sample of Russian students. We borrow satirical pictures from Lentach – popular Russian social media public page, whose motto is “a propaganda of common sense” as opposed to biased political messages proliferated by government-controlled media outlets. Using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches, we found that access to political information containing satirical illustrating content increases attention to the information, relative to political news reports accompanied by standard news illustrations. The findings contribute to the literature on the political entertainment and exposure to political information, as well as to research on media under authoritarianism
Z19|Accumulating Social Capital In An Online Urban Network: The Effects Of User Behaviors|Social capital is often accumulated not only in ego-networks, but in larger communities. However, these communities, although seemingly visible through social media, are still under-researched. In this work, we examine àn online friendship network spanning over an entire middle-size city amounting to 194,601 users of VK social network site. We find that the share of user’s in-city friends contributes to his/her brokerage and information influence abilities. More importantly, the number of user’s online groups - that is, user’s access to diverse or disconnected communities - is positively related with his/her bridging capital, and negatively with the bonding capital. Finally, our research questions the validity of some of the existing social capital measures.
Z19|The Economic Benefits of Investing in Cultural Tourism: Evidence from the Colonial City of Santo Domingo|This paper draws together quantitative methodologies from environmental and tourism economics to develop a framework for evaluating investments in cultural tourism. Indirect and induced benefits of investment in cultural tourism contribute to the overall returns on investment and not including these considerations can result in a nontrivial undervaluation of returns. To illustrate the approach, the framework is applied to a hypothetical US$90 million investment in cultural tourism in the Colonial City of Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic. While there is an opportunity cost of allocating resources to cultural tourism, this paper demonstrates the costs of not doing so by considering a disinvestment in cultural tourism. Results of the analysisshow greater economic growth and household well-being with increased investment, with disinvestment generating significant negative consequences for economic output, employmentand terms of trade.
Z19|Does Masculinity Matter for Female Leaders? Evidence in cross-section countries|This article attempts to answer the question: why are women not often at the head of nations? We test the probability of occurrence of female leaders at the head of the country using data from ARCHIGOS data set of Goemans et al. (2009). Our hypothesis is that the occurrence of female leaders as head of government is also determined by culture. This hypothesis is validated empirically. Hence, we tested the strength of this relationship, which proved to be highly robust.
Z19|Police Self-Image: A Galatea Effect|“A self-expectation about your performance largely determines your performance-Galatea effect”. This study was conducted to determine the self-image of the Police. The respondents were the 503 policemen assigned in Davao City and they were through universal sampling. With the used of Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) latent construct variable of police image were identified as follows; professionalism, obedience, morality and justice and fairness. Further, ordinal regression indicates statistical characteristics the older the police is the better perception of his self-image. Further study, to determine the congruence or resonance of the findings of this study utilizing the perception of the community on police image.
Z19|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|Religious war and the separation of Church and state affairs in the global north contributed in the emergence and implementation of various ideologies. Instead of its positive impact these ideologies became a source of extreme violence and corruption across the planet. Liberalism, non-intervention in the socio-economic affairs of mankind is considered as an advanced state of mankind ideological evolution and End of History. In addition, it is believed that liberalism is free from internal contradiction and which can be settle by an alternate ideology. In sharp contrast, Muslims believes that beside other one of the unresolvable contradictions between liberalism and Islam is the gnosis of human being which the present study will undertake. Question to be explored that what concept of man has been held by economists (Liberals/Islamic) in their analysis of the behaviour of individual man, and to what extent they have universalized their concept of the individual to mankind?
Z19|Dead men tell no tales: how the Homo sapiens became Homo economicus|The paper explains long-term changes in birth, death rates and attitude to personal consumption by changing patterns of cultural transmission. When communities are culturally isolated, they are focused on population growth, resulting in large fertility and welfare transfers to children, limited adult consumption and lack of old-age support. With increasing cultural contact across communities, successful cultural traits induce their hosts to attempt becoming celebrities by limiting fertility and increasing longevity via higher consumption and old-age arrangements. Empirical analysis confirms that celebrities have fewer children and live longer; their presence precedes reduced aggregate birth and death rates.
Z19|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|After the defeat of Marxism and the triumph in the war in Iraq, pundit in the global north labelled neoliberalism as the End of History and last form of mankind ideological evolution. It is believed that neoliberalism successfully satisfied all the previous ideological contradiction. In contrast, Muslims believe that besides others one of the prominent and unresolvable contradictions between Neoliberalism and Islam is the gnosis of humanity which the present study will undertake. In this paper using the methodology of library research we will explore how the liberal and Islamic economists conceptualize man in their analysis of human behaviour and the degree to which the concept of man has been universalized.
Z19|European Funds As Stimulative Support In Developing The Marketing Strategy For Tourism Of Vojvodina|In many European Union countries, regional and rural development strategies also include rural tourism, which helps to retain the local population, creates new jobs and contributes to the socio-economic progress of underdeveloped areas. Through specialized institutions and funds, the European Union helps and through various forms directly participates in tourism development in rural areas, and the strengthening of rural development policy has become one of the highest priorities of the European Union. Although not a member of the EU, the Republic of Serbia has defined its path of development, which implies strengthening the competitiveness and attractiveness of tourism products, taking into account new world experiences, while relying on own innovations and pre-accession EU funds. This aspect was the starting point for the development of these research and the aim of the authors was to point out one of the ways to use the excess labor force in the tourism sector, how to develop rural tourism and how to use the European funds for the development of regional tourism in the region of Vojvodina.
Z19|New Chinese in Thailand: the combination of diaspora, overseas Chinese and international students|This paper aimed to explain the pattern of migration of Chinese people in Thailand between 1978 and 2014 through qualitative research methodology. The findings were divided into two parts: the demographics of the new Chinese people in Thailand and the pattern of migration. After Sino-Thai open its diplomatic relations in 1975, the number of Chinese arrivals were slowly increasing. The shifting point was in the beginning of 2010 which a large amount of Chinese came to Thailand under supporting international circumstances in mobility and the economic interdependency. Assessing from their objectives of entering Thai, the new Chinese can be divided into four groups: Investors, small traders, labourers and students. This paper was implied in the concept of diaspora and the characteristic of new Chinese migrant around the world. The unique characteristics of Chinese diaspora, however, are the long residing in host countries, the formation of a well-established ethnic group and the retaining of Chinese identity including contributing to the development of China.The model of new Chinese migration in Thailand can be divided into two forms. Those investors, employees and students match the terms of diaspora as they were long-term migrants who probably return. On the other hand, the trader?s model is a traditional form of overseas Chinese who stayed and worked with their relatives. Moreover, they tend to stay permanently in Thai as ethnic Chinese.
Z19|Cultural Diversity Values Embedded in Children?s Literature|This study investigated the cultural diversity values embedded in children?s stories of the age 8-12 years in the Arab World presented by the characters of the stories, taking Jordan as a case study. The following questions were raised: 1- What are the cultural diversity values embedded in children stories for the age of 8-12 years? 2- What are the characters in children stories in terms of gender (male ? female), age (child-adult-old), and types (human-animal) that represented these values? Thirty three stories were chosen and analyzed using a developed checklist of the cultural diversity values, and Child, Potter & Levine (1971) classification of characters. Findings revealed that the cultural diversity values in children?s stories were not sufficient as they should be according to the used scale.
Z19|Vers la compréhension de l’entrepreneur de demain : s’inspirer de l’entrepreneur dans les industries culturelles et créatives|Cet article a pour objectif de comprendre l’entrepreneur de demain en convoquant les travaux relatifs à l’entrepreneuriat culturel et créatif. Nous montrons, en référence aux dernières approches en entrepreneuriat s’appuyant sur la philosophie pragmatiste, qu’il importe de se concentrer sur l’agir créatif qui lie l’entrepreneur et son environnement. Puis, nous caractérisons l’environnement de cet agir en ICC, notamment l’existence d’un marché très concurrentiel, hautement incertain, et où les fins et les moyens sont imbriqués. Nous pointons dès lors des enjeux auxquels l’entrepreneur de demain est/sera confronté en l’occurrence l’existence (1) d’un écosystème valorisant sa créativité et (2) d’espaces économiques démocratiques créatifs.
Z19|Do cultural differences affect voluntary payment decisions? Evidence from guided tours|We provide an empirical explanation for cross-country differences in the size of the voluntary payments made for a good offered in a Pay-What-You-Want payment scheme. Using a sample of almost 500 international travellers from 50 nations participating in a guided tour that uses a voluntary payment method, we analyse the relationship between the size of the average voluntary payments and national values defined by Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions (1983) as well as selected values from the World Value Survey (WVS). Strong correlations between certain cultural values and average payment sizes are found.
Z19|De la Cumbiamba al Vallenato: Aproximación cultural, económica y política a la música de acordeón en el Caribe colombiano, 1870-1960|A partir de los datos aportados por este trabajo se propone que el acordeón llegó por primera vez a las costas del Caribe colombiano en el año 1870, por lo que el instrumento está próximo a cumplir 150 años de presencia en el folclor colombiano. En la década de 1890 se encuentran referencias de los primeros conjuntos de cumbiamba que se componían de acordeón, caja y guacharaca. En la última década del siglo XIX y principios del siglo XX surgieron los primeros intelectuales que discutieron y difundieron la música de acordeón y el folclor costeño en general. En la segunda mitad del siglo XX el vallenato se convirtió en la música de mayor auge, primero en el Caribe colombiano y luego en toda Colombia, desplazando a los otros ritmos costeños como la cumbia y el porro. Su máximo exponente fue el compositor Rafael Escalona y su principal promotor el escritor Gabriel García Márquez, quien reconoció las influencias extra literarias de la música vallenata en sus obras. ******ABSTRACT: This document argues that the Accordion first arrived to the Caribbean coast of Colombia in 1870, which implies that the instrument is about to celebrate 150 years of influence in the culture of the region. There are references in the decade of 1890 that relate to the first musical groups of cumbiamba, which were integrated by an accordion, but also with Caja and Guacharaca. The first intellectuals that commented and spread the music of accordion and the folklore of the Caribbean region emerged during the last decade of the nineteenth century and the early twentieth. In the second half of the twentieth century, Vallenato became very popular. At first in the Caribbean region, but then in all of the country, displacing other coastal rhythms such as Cumbia and Porro. Its maximum exponent was the composer Rafael Escalona, and its main promoter the writer Gabriel García Márquez, who recognized the influence of this music in its work.
Z19|De la Cumbiamba al Vallenato: Aproximación cultural, económica y política a la música de acordeón en el Caribe colombiano, 1870-1960|A partir de los datos aportados por este trabajo se propone que el acordeón llegó por primera vez a las costas del Caribe colombiano en el año 1870, por lo que el instrumento está próximo a cumplir 150 años de presencia en el folclor colombiano. En la década de 1890 se encuentran referencias de los primeros conjuntos de cumbiamba que se componían de acordeón, caja y guacharaca. En la última década del siglo XIX y principios del siglo XX surgieron los primeros intelectuales que discutieron y difundieron la música de acordeón y el folclor costeño en general. En la segunda mitad del siglo XX el vallenato se convirtió en la música de mayor auge, primero en el Caribe colombiano y luego en toda Colombia, desplazando a los otros ritmos costeños como la cumbia y el porro. Su máximo exponente fue el compositor Rafael Escalona y su principal promotor el escritor Gabriel García Márquez, quien reconoció las influencias extra literarias de la música vallenata en sus obras. ******ABSTRACT: This document argues that the Accordion first arrived to the Caribbean coast of Colombia in 1870, which implies that the instrument is about to celebrate 150 years of influence in the culture of the region. There are references in the decade of 1890 that relate to the first musical groups of cumbiamba, which were integrated by an accordion, but also with Caja and Guacharaca. The first intellectuals that commented and spread the music of accordion and the folklore of the Caribbean region emerged during the last decade of the nineteenth century and the early twentieth. In the second half of the twentieth century, Vallenato became very popular. At first in the Caribbean region, but then in all of the country, displacing other coastal rhythms such as Cumbia and Porro. Its maximum exponent was the composer Rafael Escalona, and its main promoter the writer Gabriel García Márquez, who recognized the influence of this music in its work.
Z19|National Culture, Families, or Education Policies: What Determines National Test Scores?|Conventional analyses attribute cross-country differences in students’ average test scores to family characteristics, school resources, and school system characteristics, but institutional economists and cultural anthropologists argue that cultural beliefs and institutions are the fundamental determinants of a society’s level of human capital. I examine the effects of cultural beliefs, institutional characteristics, family characteristics, and various school and education policy characteristics on average PISA scores in mathematics. I find that national cultural and institutional characteristics explain over 80% of the variation in average scores across 58 countries. When family, school, and school system characteristics are included as causes, cultural and institutional characteristics continue to explain most of the variation in average scores. More financial resources for schools continue to raise average scores, the existence of a central exit exam has a small effect, and the share of private enrollment in the school system has no effect on these scores.
Z19|2 The New Scenarios of Culture: Some Economic Challenges|IThe perception of cultural production as an economic activity with its own identity, has led to the concept of Creative Industries, which in turn has led to considerations about its contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP). As a result we have an increasingly stronger connection between two fields (economics and culture), which were long believed completely different. Conventional Economics once regarded culture as an unproductive sector; but nowadays culture is conceived as the Fourth Pillar of Sustainable Development. However, the contribution of culture to GDP is not limited to matters only relating to artistic creation, and culture goes way beyond solely maximizing the profit rate, or economic performance, functioning as the nerve of idiosyncrasy. The aim of this paper is to explore how the culture token cameto Economic Science, and how this issue has been approached in Mexico.
Z19|The Design of Tests with Multiple Choice Questions Automatically Generated from Essays in a Learner Corpus|Learner corpora have great potential as sources of educational material. If a corpus contains annotations of mistakes in student works, it can be of use for the recognition and analysis of the most common error patterns. The error-annotation system of the learner corpus REALEC makes it possible to automatically generate different types of test questions and thus form exercises from the corpus data. This paper describes the creation of an automatic multiple-choice generator which works with the specific types of the student errors annotated in the texts of examination essays
Z19|Nominative Object in Modern North Russian Dialects|The main way to mark the direct object in Russian dialects is the accusative case, but in some constructions the NP in direct object position is marked by the nominative case. This paper considers this similar to the Differential Object Marking (DOM) phenomenon, where an NP in the direct object position in certain conditions can be in the nominative case, but in normal conditions it is in the accusative. The study describes this phenomenon in North Russian dialects. Different syntactic constructions with nominative objects considered from the point of the DOM features: animacy, definiteness, word order, information structure, and the modality of predicates
Z19|Studying Patterns of Communication in Virtual Urban Groups with Different Modes of Privacy|This paper is concerned with online communication of apartment buildings' residents on general purpose social networking site (SNS) VKontakte (VK), focusing on how groups' participants use instruments of SNS to separate place-based discussions and participation in wider community initiatives. With the help of topic modeling algorithm LDA, we analyzed posts collected from online groups related to apartment buildings in St. Petersburg to reveal differences in communication in open groups and restricted access groups. We also looked at overlaps between local groups of apartment buildings and city-wide movements. Our study shows that inside SNS there is a functional differentiation between restricted access groups and open groups, which have different audiences and communicative strategies. Restricted access (private) groups play an important role in the formation of neighbors' communities of trust and, supposedly, can be useful substitutes of face-to-face interaction for people moving into new buildings. Open (public) groups function as public forums for fostering neighbors' cooperation and attracting the attention of the broader public to local issues and conflicts
Z19|Számít-e a földrajzi elhelyezkedés?. A nyugat-európai régiók fejlettségének térökonometriai vizsgálata<BR>[Does geography matter?. A spatial econometric investigation of development in West European regions]|Szemben az empirikus fejlődés-gazdaságtan standard kutatásaival, amelyek a természetföldrajzi tényezők szerepét elemzik, a cikk azt vizsgálja, hogy kimutathatók-e a fejlett szomszédoktól érkező tovagyűrűző (spillover) hatások, amelyek serkenthetik a régiók fejlődését, és megmagyarázhatják a fejlettebb és a kevésbé fejlett nyugat-európai régiók térbeli klaszteresedését. A térökonometriai módszerekkel kapott eredmények a fejlődés-gazdaságtan intézményi és kulturális hipotézisét megerősítik, de a földrajzi hipotézist nem: kiszűrve az intézmények, a kultúra és a történelmi fejlettségi szint hatásait, nem marad szignifikáns térbeli függőség a nyugat-európai régiók egy főre jutó GDP-jében, tehát a földrajzi adottságok újfajta értelmezésével sem lehetett meggyőző bizonyítékot találni arra, hogy a földrajzi elhelyezkedés számítana a fejlettség szempontjából. A tanulmány végén a szerző felhívja a figyelmet az eredmények néhány korlátjára is, amelyek további kutatások előtt nyithatják meg az utat.* Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: B52, C21, O11, O18, R11, Z19.
Z19|Event dan festival di Cirebon: Review bauran pemasaran syari’ah<BR>[Event and festival in Cirebon: Review of shariah marketing mix]|This paper reviewed the event and tourism festival held in Cirebon the last few years very heavily promoted. Cirebon as the gate of secret and as a metropolitan city has many tourist attractions and facilities adequate infrastructure as one of the tourist traffic in Indonesia. With the review of documents and trend analysis, marketing mix approach of the shariah in the promotion of events and festivals in Cirebon, both in the field of religious and traditions, art and culture, culinary, natural beauty, and the local economy offers a new concept in marketing tourism products which emphasize aspects locality and uniqueness noticed preservation, and also the principles of sharia ensure their halal products and values of business ethics in marketing.
Z19|The Impact of Social Media On Belief Formation|Social media are becoming increasingly important in our society and change the way people communicate, how they acquire information, and how they form beliefs. Experts are concerned that the rise of social media may make interaction and information exchange among like-minded individuals more pronounced and therefore lead to increased disagreement in a society. This paper analyzes a learning model with endogenous network formation in which people have different types and live in different regions. I show that when the importance of social media increases, the amount of disagreement in the society first decreases and then increases. Simultaneously people of the same type hold increasingly similar beliefs. Furthermore, people who find it hard to communicate with people in the same region may interact with similar people online and consequently hold extreme beliefs. Finally, I propose a simple way to model people who neglect a potential correlation of signals and show that these people may be made worse off by social media.
Z19|Do cultural factors alter the relationship between risk attitudes and economic welfare?|This paper analyzes how cultural factors shape risk attitudes and subsequently alter its relationship with economic welfare. The research sample is comprised by a three wave balanced panel data set of 588 ethnically diverse households collected between 2008 and 2013 in the Central Vietnam. Different ethnic groups are characterized by different languages, customs and beliefs that create the cultural diversity of the sample. Different approaches are used to examine the relationship between risk attitudes and economic welfare in the presence of the cultural diversity. First, a single-equation estimation method using a fixed effects model and a Hausman-Taylor model is employed to examine the unidirectional relationship. Second, a simultaneous equation estimation method using the Three Stage Least Squares model is applied to explore a bidirectional relationship between risk attitudes and economic welfare. Among the ethnic minorities, results indicate a negative association between willingness to take risks and economic welfare at low degree but a positive at the higher degree of risk-taking. For the ethnic majority, a positive and mutual relationship between risk attitudes and economic welfare is indicated. The ethnic majority is economically better-off than their minority counterparts are, whereas the minorities are economically homogenous but strongly diverse in risk attitudes and social factors. This study sheds light on the cultural heterogeneity in the individual risk attitudes as well as in shaping its relationship with economic welfare. Generally, it is suggested to consider sociocultural factors via risk-taking channel in socioeconomic policies that target ethnically or culturally diverse populations. Particularly, that implies a need to encourage the risk-taking strategies among the extremely risk-averse individuals, particularly who belong to the ethnic minorities.
Z19|Experimentally validated general risk attitude among different ethnic groups in Vietnam|"In this paper, we compare experimentally measured individual risk attitudes and survey-based risk items for rural households in the province of Dak Lak in Southern Vietnam. In particular, we test whether the survey-based measure can be validated by a risk experiment among different ethnic groups. Albeit we find that ethnic minorities are on average more risk averse than the ethnic majority, our results show similar correlations between risk attitudes and socio-economic characteristics among the two ethnic groups. Testing the explanatory power of the survey-based risk item shows the validity of this measure among different ethnic groups. Our findings have potentially important implications. First, the survey-based item is effective to measure risk attitudes of a multiethnic community. Second, our findings also suggest that the assumption of a ""self-reinforcing culture of poverty"" which is often attributed to minority group of Vietnam should be challenged in the light of these results."
Z19|Hyper-H-Indices for Multi-Attribute Research Outputs: Characterizations|A multi-attribute research output index assigns a real number to any integer-valued matrix recording the relevant research items and their respective attribute-scores, for any fixed set of m distinct integer-valued attributes. The hyper-h (HH) index assigns to such a multi-attribute research output the maximum number n of output-items having a minimum attribute-score not smaller than n. Thus, HH-indices can also be described by analogy with the h-index as hyper-Durfee numbers, namely as side-sizes of suitable Durfee hypercubes. Two distinct characterizations of HH-indices that generalize well-known characterizations of the h-index are provided. Those characterizations strongly suggest that the standard properties of the h-index can be easily lifted to multi-attribute outputs, provided that distinct attributes are implicitly given an equal 'weight'.
Z19|The strength of the anchoring effect on Pay What You Want payments: Evidence from a vignette experiment|The goal of this paper is to empirically investigate, on the example of eBooks, the effects of the expected quality, external and internal reference prices, risk-taking propensity and perceived costs of production on the size of the voluntary payments in pay-what-you-want (PWYW) scheme. Using the results of a vignette experiment, we show that independently from the expected quality of the eBook, when individual internal reference price is higher than external reference price, voluntary payments are significantly higher if external reference price is not provided. When the external reference price is not provided then PWYW payments depend positively on consumers’ individual internal reference price, and the perceived percentage of the price believed to cover the author’s compensation and the publication costs. The originality of the research comes from separating the anchoring effect of external reference prices from the quality signal effect.
Z19|Does popularity matter in a TV song competition? Evidence from a national music contest|There is a considerable amount of literature analyzing factors of success in music contests, in particular those where the audience votes for the winner. However, one factor that is highlighted by the economic theory of stardom is generally neglected in the literature. In this paper, we tackle this research gap by focusing on a national music contest in Germany and investigating how popularity of the participating artists influences the final voting results. We employ two different concepts of popularity. First, we collected data regarding the artist's former success (MacDonald-popularity) using music charts data. Second, we proxy the media presence of the artists (Adler-popularity) using hits in traditional and new media. In our analysis, we find empirical evidence that the artist's ex-ante popularity positively affects the outcome of voting results. Interestingly, media presence matters more than former success. Furthermore, displaying the characteristics of a one-hit won-der harms success in the contest.
Z19|Teoretické Východiská Skúmania Problematiky Hybridnej Vojny – Vojny 21. Storočia (Theoretical Background For The Research Of Problems Of The Hybrid War – The War Of The 21. Century)|Hybridná vojna predstavuje v posledných rokoch jeden z najpoužívanejších pojmov vo sfére vojenstva a bezpečnosti, a čiastočne aj politiky a medzinárodných vzťahov, zvlášť po vypuknutí konfliktu na Ukrajine. Čoraz častejšie sa objavuje nielen vo vedeckých alebo odborných publikáciách, štúdiách či článkoch z oblasti vojenstva a bezpečnosti, ale tiež v rôznych časopisoch, správach a debatách mimo vojenskú a bezpečnostnú komunitu. Mohlo by sa zdať, že ide o nový termín alebo dokonca nový typ konfliktu, ale nie je to tak. Hybridná vojna nie je žiadny nový fenomén, je známa už veľa rokov, avšak po ruskej anexii Krymu je tento pojem oveľa populárnejší a častejšie používaný. Na druhej strane, väčšia časť širšej verejnosti nevie, čo tento termín naozaj znamená, čo hybridná vojna predstavuje, a preto sa autor vo svojom príspevku zaoberá teoretickými východiskami skúmania problematiky hybridnej vojny a prostredníctvom dosiahnutých výsledkov realizovaného výskumu objasňuje podstatu skúmaného problému. (Hybrid war represents one the most used terms in the area of military and security affairs, and particularly also in politics and international relationships in the last years, especially after the outbreak of conflict in Ukraine. It appears still more frequently not only in scientific or specialized military or security publications, studies or articles, but also in various journals, news, reports or debates out of military or security community. It might be seemed it is a new term or even new type of conflict, but it is not. Hybrid war is really no new phenomenon, it is known for many years; however, after the Russian annexation of Crimea, it is much more popular and used. On the other hand, the majority of wider public do not know what the mentioned term exactly represents, and that is the reason why an author of the article deals with this topic from theoretical point of view, and, through gained results of the research, trays to explain the essence of examined problem.)
Z19|Morálny Hazard Humanitárnej Intervencie. Pozitíva. Negatíva. (Moral Hazard Of Humanitarian Intervention. Advantages And Disadvantages.)|Hlavným cieľom tohto článku je prispieť ku komplexnému zmapovaniu stavu súčasného poznania konceptu morálneho hazardu tak, aby bolo možné v rámci budúceho výskumu vytvoriť kompaktný prehľad existujúceho teoretického základu morálneho hazardu humanitárnej intervencie. Vzhľadom k tomu, že jednou z najvýznamnejších prekážok rozvoja tohto konceptu je nekoncentrovanosť a roztrúsenosť informácií, článok sa koncentruje špecificky na identifikáciu slabých a silných stránok konceptu a ich analýzu, čím sa pokúša tento nedostatok prekonať. Ambíciou zvoleného prístupu je príprava základného teoretického rámca pre adresovanie otázky, do akej miery (a či vôbec) je morálny hazard využiteľným a efektívnym interpretačným prostriedkom analýzy okolností vzniku humanitárnej intervencie. (The main aim of this article is to contribute to a complex evaluation of the current stage of knowledge regarding the concept of moral hazard of humanitarian intervention so that it is possible to create a compact review of existing theoretical framework of the moral hazard of humanitarian intervention in the future research. Due to the fact that scattered and diffused information has been identified as one of the key obstacles hindering the development of the concept, the goal of this article is to specifically concentrate on the identification of the concept´s advantages and disadvantages as well as their analysis so that this drawback can be overcome. The ambition of this approach is to establish the basic theoretical framework of the concept so as the question to what extent (or rather whether) the moral hazard is an effective interpretation means of the analysis of circumstances leading to a humanitarian intervention can be addressed.)
Z19|An Etymological Approach To The Moldavian Chart Of Accounts|Empirical research in accounting history can help the scholar gain a better insight into the various cultural influences that shape the reasoning of accounting professionals. An empirical approach to accounting history can provide an additional dimension to the context which shapes the underlying principles and practices. For the purpose of this paper, an etymological analysis was performed on the chart of accounts from the Republic of Moldova since March 2015, with the purpose of identifying the various layers of the accounting terminology and their probable corresponding periods in history. The research reveals a surprising linguistic profile which has not been influenced significantly by the Soviet Union, with major influences being drawn from the 19th and early 20th centuries.
Z19|The Dispute Between Political Theology And The Politics Of Theology In The Twenty-First Century On The Meanings Of The Postmodern Globalizing And Individualistic Society And The Christian Personalist Globality|Upon the dawn of postmodernity, in the twenty-first century, we witness the emergence of a new way of thinking and of new forms of culture and life, under the ideology of globalism, whose dominance is given by the practicality and utility related to civilization, and under globality, which is the cultural aspect of globalization, pertaining to the field of culture. The two dimensions of globalization and globality, civilizational and cultural, will (re)question the principle relationship between Christianity and the new postmodern globalizing utopia, requiring to (re)consider the sense and presence of Christianity within the world, and the appropriate sociological figure of the Church, within the new reality of global and globalized humanity, in the postmodern public space. This paper deals with this ideology - globalism and the cultural manifestation of globality, and with the Orthodox answer to the new challenge of individualism and postmodern globalizing (neo)collectivism.
Z19|The effect of news on the radicalization of public opinion towards immigration|This paper analyses the effects of newspaper coverage and the tone of news on immigration on the attitude of natives towards immigration in 19 countries (World Values Survey Database) for the period 2005-2009. The results can be summarised as follows: coverage and the negative tone of news have a significant effect in reducing the attitudes towards immigration for people with high trust in the media; for those with low trust in the media, news on immigration has no significant effects. In the latter case coverage and the negative tone of news radicalizes individuals’ prior preferences and prejudices on immigration, where the latter are proxied by individual political orientations.
Z19|La terciarización en Chile. Desigualdad cultural y estructura ocupacional|La terciarización, o transición hacia economías de servicios con un creciente protagonismo de las ocupaciones no manuales, ha sido destacada como un fenómeno central de las sociedades contemporáneas. Frente al supuesto hundimiento numérico y político de los sectores obreros tradicionales, la clase media ha aparecido como la clase social protagónica de las últimas décadas. Vinculada a esta comprensión de la evolución de la sociedad, se ha manifestado un creciente interés por formas de diferenciación social distintas a la ocupacional de las sociedades industriales, entre ellas la cultural. En este trabajo se reconstruye brevemente este debate, y se muestra que si bien pudiera existir un crecimiento de ocupaciones no manuales, y con ello podría pensarse que habría un progresivo avance hacia una sociedad de clase media, hay importantes hallazgos que dificultan simplemente aceptar la afirmación de que Chile se ha convertido en tal tipo de sociedad mesocrática.
Z19|Tertiarization in Chile: cultural inequality and occupational structure|Tertiarization, or the shift to service economies with an increasing prevalence of non-manual occupations, has been identified as a central phenomenon in contemporary societies. With the purported numerical and political decline of traditional working-class sectors, the middle class has come to be seen in recent decades as the dominant one. This understanding of the way society has evolved has gone along with a growing interest in forms of social differentiation other than the occupational one of industrial societies, including cultural differentiation. This paper briefly reconstructs the debate and shows that while there may have been growth in non-manual occupations, prompting the notion of a progressive shift towards a middle-class society, some important findings make it difficult simply to accept the claim that Chile has become this kind of mesocratic society.
Z19|Autographs and the global art market: the case of hedonic prices for French autographs (1960–2005)|Abstract The market for autographs has become more open to international buyers since 1990. Our data set features a large sample of store and auction sales for selected authors every 5 years from 1960 to 2005. The estimation of a hedonic price function shows that page count, type of author, date and type of the document conditionally to author explain more than three quarters of the price differences. The apparent price of autographs increased by 7.7 % per year during the period, while the hedonic price index increased by 7.9 % on average. With a supply function responsive to market valuation, as well French autograph prices seemingly showing trend similar to art market index, the French autograph market has become more integrated in the global art market.
Z19|Creative Destruction and Subjective Well-Being|In this paper we analyze the relationship between turnover-driven growth and subjective well-being. Our model of innovation-led growth and unemployment predicts that: (i) the effect of creative destruction on expected individual welfare should be unambiguously positive if we control for unemployment, less so if we do not; (ii) job creation has a positive and job destruction has a negative impact on well-being; (iii) job destruction has a less negative impact in areas with more generous unemployment insurance policies; and (iv) job creation has a more positive effect on individuals that are more forward-looking. The empirical analysis using cross sectional MSA (metropolitan statistical area)-level and individual-level data provide empirical support to these predictions.
Z19|What is Time in Some Modern Physics Theories: Interpretation Problems|The article deals with the problem of time in the context of several theories of modern physics. This fundamental concept inevitably arises in physical theories, but so far there is no adequate description of it in the philosophy of science. In the theory of relativity, quantum field theory, Standard Model of particle physics, theory of loop quantum gravity, superstring theory and other most recent theories the idea of time is shown explicitly or not. Sometimes, such as in the special theory of relativity, it plays a significant role and sometimes it does not. But anyway it exists and is implied by the content of the theory, which in some cases directly includes its mathematical tools. Fundamental difference of space-time processes in microcosm and macrocosm is of particular importance for solving the problem. In this regard, a need to understand the time in the way it appears in modern physics, to describe it in the language of philosophy arises (satisfactory for time description mathematical tools also do not exist). This will give an opportunity to get closer to the answer on question of time characteristics. And even if we do not obtain the exact answer, we will still be able to formulate the right question about its nature. For this purpose, the present research carries out analysis of the key theories of modern physics with regard to historical and scientific, historical and philosophical perspectives. In some cases, this gives an opportunity to detect the succession of the associated with time perception ideas, their development, as well as the origination of fundamentally new ones. During the analysis, the correct characteristics of time are formulated from the point of view of physical theory and the attempt to state the nature of time is made. On the ground of conducted research, the conclusions about current state of the problem and its future solution perspectives are drawn.
Z19|Network Structure of an Aids-Denailists Online Community: Identifying Core Members and the Risk Group|Background: With the rapid growth of online social network sites (SNS), the issue of health-related online communities and its social and behavioral implications have become increasingly important for public health and healthcare. Unfortunately, online communities often become vehicles for promotion of pernicious misinformation, for example, alleged harm of vaccination or that HIV-virus is a myth (AIDS-denialism). This study seeks to explore the social structure and participants' behavior of the AIDS-denialists online community to identify and estimate the those who potentially are most susceptible to AIDS-denialists arguments - “the risk group” in terms of becoming AIDS-denialists. Methods: Social network analysis was used for examining the most numerous AIDS-denialist community in the most popular Russian SNA “VKontakte”, which numbered 13 000 – 15 000 members during the various stage of analysis. Qualitative content analysis was also used for collecting relevant for this study members’ attributes, such as HIV status and the extent of belief in AIDS-denialists arguments. Two datasets were collected to analyze friendship relations between community members and their communication relations. Results: Using social network analysis combined with content-analysis we have identified the core of online community - cohesive and dedicated AIDS-denialists, and the risk group, which is not equal in composition to all peripheral members appeared in the online group. The risk group is the circle of users who engage with core members through online communication and may be more susceptible the AIDS-denialist propaganda. Analysis allowed to significantly reduce the target audience for possible intervention campaign and simultaneously increase the accuracy of user selection into the risk group (1369 users from the risk group is more than 10 times less than whole online group population counting over 15 000 users). Thus, online information interventions should be aimed at this risk group audience in the first place to prevent their adoption of AIDS-denialism beliefs, further spread of AIDS-denialism, and pernicious health consequences associated with being an HIV-positive AIDS-denialist. Conclusion: More research on influence of AIDS-denialism on HIV-positive online group members is needed. Of particular interest are longitudinal or case control studies that could detect the size of effect of AIDS-denialist propaganda that is communicated from hard-core denialists to the risk group, different factors associated with higher or lower susceptibility to AIDS-denialist views, and real health behavior change that occurs with becoming an AIDS-denialist
Z19|Understanding the influences of ‘world culture course’ on students’ attitude and perception: An empirical study|Today’s world cannot circumvent the strong and dominant effects of cultural globalization. This study examines how does an undergraduate course on global culture being offered at the Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT) influence the attitudes and perceptions of students who are undertaking that course virtually along with their counterparts in Namibia and the USA. Global culture course provides a unique platform for students to learn the international culture without traveling. UMT in collaboration with two other participating universities namely East Carolina University, USA, and University of Namibia offers this course where the students communicate with each other using videoconferencing and interactive chat technology. Participating universities operate the course in such a manner that students can discuss various topic ranging from personal life, family and social traditions, cultural norms and etiquettes during the semester. They also share the meaning of life and religion to stereotypes and prejudices. Data for this study were collected through a structured questionnaire given to 12 students at UMT who undertook this course in the preceding academic semester. This study precisely assesses and explores their learning and perception of the course, and discusses the implications of empirical results at local, national, and international levels. Upon collecting data using a random sampling technique, descriptive statistics such as frequency, mean, and standard deviation have been calculated for all 22 variables in the original questionnaire. The one sample t-test has then been employed for all those variables to see whether there is any significant difference between the actual and observed responses provided by the students concerning their learning and perception toward the course. The empirical outcomes show that world culture course creates students’ real sentience and helps them understand and tolerate cultural diversity. Particularly, Malaysian students have demonstrated a strong connection to and respect towards their own culture and traditions. Their demonstrated attitudes and perceptions were found to have matched well with the characteristics of a collective society where there is usually less freedom. However, these were found to be considerably opposite to the United States culture in which individualism is widespread. We, however, suggest that universities around the world should adopt such education approach to making students aware of global cultures. Since culture is widely perceived as shared values, ideas, and principles and it is influenced mostly by the social, political and religious dimensions, an in-depth understanding of the world culture and its influences requires a multidimensional approach, which is beyond the scope of this study.
Z19|External Influence as an Indicator of Scholarly Importance|Although the external influence of scholars has usually been approximated by publication and citation count, the array of scholarly activities is far more extensive. Today, new technologies, in particular Internet search engines, allow more accurate measurement of scholars' influence on societal discourse. Hence, in this article, we analyse the relation between the internal and external influence of 723 top economists using the number of pages indexed by Google and Bing as a measure of external influence. We not only identify a small association between these scholars’ internal and external influence but also a correlation between internal influence, as captured by receipt of such major academic awards as the Nobel Prize and John Bates Clark Medal, and the external prominence of the top 100 researchers.
Z19|Alexis Tsipras und der rhetorische Diskurs als Politik<BR>[Alexis Tsipras and the rhetorical discourse as Policy]|"Es existiert wohl keinerlei «Präzedenzfall», der in irgendeiner Weise vergleichbar wäre mit der vollkommenen Verwandlung des derzeitigen griechischen Ministerpräsidenten Alexis Tsipras und dessen Anpassung an die Anforderungen der griechischen Realität. Wahrhaft, all zu rasch übersetzte sich sein radikaler, unkonventioneller und extremer Diskurs gegen die in Griechenland seit 2010 implementierte harte Sparpolitik, in einen taktischen Rückzug. Die SYRIZA Partei, eine heterogene Mischung linker Strömungen, nutzte den Unmut der Bevölkerung gegenüber den schmerzhaft anmutenden Sparmaβnahmen des sogenannten griechischen Memorandums, um den eigenen machtpolitischen Senkrechtsstart voranzutreiben und sich ziemlich rasch von einer kleinen Protestpartei zu einer Machtpartei zu verwandeln. Dementsprechend transferierte diese Partei, ohne die geringste moralische Umschweife, die Verzweiflung der Bürger in einen extremen rhetorischen Diskurs der scheinbaren „Verteidigung sozialer Rechte“ hinein, jedoch mit dem Ziel des eigenen Wahlsieges und anschließend die Übernahme der Macht. Abstract English There is probably no ""precedent"", which would be comparable in any way with the perfect transformation of the current Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and its adaptation to the requirements of the Greek reality. Truly, all too quickly his radical, unconventional and extreme discourse against the implemented in Greece since 2010 tough austerity policy, is transformed into a tactical retreat.. The SYRIZA party, a heterogeneous mixture of left Groups , used the displeasure of the population to the painful-looking Austerity measures of the so-called Greek memorandum to advance their own political take off to power and rather rapidly to transform from a small protest party to a ruling party. Accordingly, this party transferred, without the slightest moral ado, the despair of the citizens in an extreme rhetorical discourse of apparent ""defense of social rights"" into it, however, with the aim of the own electoral victory and then the acquisition of power."
Z19|Aggregate wages of players and performance in Italian Serie A|Abstract This paper investigates the relationship between players’ wages and sport performance in the Italian top professional football league—Serie A. The analysis focuses on 14 seasons from 2001/2002 to 2014/2015. Findings show that aggregate wage expenditure is a robust predictor of success for Italian professional football teams. We first exploited a fixed-effects panel data and eventually we addressed the problem of endogeneity by providing a dynamic IV specification of the model. Based on the System-GMM framework, we employed a model including lagged terms of dependent variables and covariates as instruments to control for endogeneity as well as alternative exogenous instruments to control for geographical/environmental factors and socio-economic factors that could be the actual predictors of performance through an indirect effect on payroll.
Z19|Complementary Health Insurance in France, the “Mutuelle” Institute and Its Terminology|The aim of the paper is to characterise the system of social insurance in France and to show the role of combined social and health care insurance companies called “mutuelles” in the framework of compulsory complementary health insurance in France. Historical roots of this non-profit organisation based on a system of solidarity, participation in expenses and management are mentioned, a wide range of coverage of health care as well as the way of reimbursement of expenses for care provided for their members are described, and its future prospects are outlined. The paper tries to point out the differences in terminology and content as there are analogical institutions with a different role or only partial content equivalence besides specific legal institutions. This relates to different social traditions in the given communities during their development. The goal is to bring operation of French institutions closer to the Czech legal system.
Z19|Concentración en la vitivinicultura y rechazo a la megaminería en Mendoza (Argentina). Institucionalidades y conflictos|Este artículo se centra en dos importantes focos de conflictividad social en la provincia de Mendoza (Argentina), ligadas al ambiente y el territorio, poniendo énfasis en las dimensiones institucionales y las prácticas políticas desarrolladas por los actores. En primer lugar, se aborda la problemática de la concentración de la tierra irrigada, en el marco de la nueva vitivinicultura, y las propuestas formuladas por determinadas instituciones para el sector de pequeños productores. En segundo lugar, se analizan algunos aspectos del rechazo social y político al proyecto minero “San Jorge”, ocurrido en 2011. Finalmente se abordan reflexiones de conjunto.
Z19|Lo político y la política Desdoblamiento del poder político en la Política de la Liberación de Enrique Dussel|Lo político tiene una relación directa con el poder instituyente. La política, por su parte, tiene una relación directa con el poder instituido. Los vínculos entre ambos poderes son dialécticos y las líneas que los separan son endebles. El poder instituyente no desaparece -por tanto- con la formación del poder instituido. El punto de partida para el desarrollo de lo político y la política es el poder político de la comunidad, cuya sustancia es el consenso racional. Lo racional es lo real y, lo real, es la corporalidad viviente del ser humano. El objetivo -entonces- del proceso político en su conjunto (lo político y la política) es mantener y acrecentar la vida humana. Este objetivo constituye la base de la Política de la Liberación de Enrique Dussel. La sustancia del poder político -de manera inevitable- se invisibiliza -principalmente- con el desarrollo de la política, dando lugar al poder fetichizado. Se trata de un poder donde lo racional queda oculto. La comunidad que decide hacer frente a los embates de la fetichización del poder y que decide instalar otro poder instituido se erige como pueblo. En este proceso retorna el poder instituyente.
Z19|The Refugee Crisis On Twitter: A Diversity Of Discourses At A European Crossroads|In the last decade, the European Union has approved and launched measures to promote Intercultural Cities, Diversity Management and the Integration of Immigrants in Europe. Despite this European framework, we are now at a crossroads between solidarity and humanity and an important restriction of refugees’ human rights across Europe. In this paper, we try to compare the international approaches to the refugee crisis in different countries in Europe. Data were extracted from Twitter. We obtained thousands of tweets about “refugees”, using this word in six different languages (English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish) from end November 2015 to 27 February 2016 as search strings. We performed a discourse analysis, focusing on the comparison between countries. A qualitative analysis with the help of both Atlas ti and T-Lab software was performed. The results showed a diversity of current discourses in Europe about refugees and the refugee crisis (from solidary to xenophobic ones), some of them very characteristic of particular countries or of local events experienced in these countries. These results allow us to reinforce the idea that we are at a key moment for the future development of Europe, especially regarding aspects concerning living together in cities and villages.
Z19|A Study on Culture and Way of Life Sustainable of the People in Koh Samui|Culture plays an important and vital role in attracting visitors and tourists to travel to various tourist attractions, in order to explore and learn the cultural context of the area. If the area has the difference of high cultural diversity or cultural context from the other usual tourist environment or habitat, it would challenge and stimulate the curiosity to go high as well. Therefore, the objective of this research was to explore cultural and way of life sustainable of the people in Koh Samui, Surat Thani province, Thailand. This study was designed as a qualitative research, using non-structural interview, in-depth interview, focus group discussion, and communities meeting. This research used sample size of 4 groups, which were local community groups, local entrepreneur such as transportation, accommodation, restaurant, tour operation, souvenir shop and spa business, tourist at Koh Samui as well as supported institute in cultural tourism at Koh Samui.The study found that traditional community context consisted of the general Thai social that the way of life affiliated family, temple and associate with social groups by means of family is important to supported family members. Agriculture, fishery and merchandise are the main occupation of the community. Koh Samui has a personality and culture of its own. The first settlers that landed at Koh Samui were Chinese traders and Muslim fishermen. On Koh Samui, the family is an extended family. Tourism became the main source of income of Koh Samui. Investments of infrastructure and tourism facilities are rapidly expanded to be beneficial trade of land ownership for both of Thai and foreigner to do the business. Nevertheless, the growth of tourism city without the high-quality management could affected cultural and traditional to be adjust of tourism industry, speedily destroyed ecosystem, historic site dilapidation, and vanish of Koh Samui unique.
Z19|Endogenous growth and demographic transition in a model of cultural transmission|Abstract Demographic transition theory is developed highlighting cultural transmission pattern as a key driver. Individuals maximize cultural fitness, i.e. the rate of own cultural type absorption by future generations. With low population density, one’s culture can be picked up only by own children, and so cultural fitness equals genetic fitness, individuals allocate all energy surplus to reproduction, and the Malthusian regime occurs. With rising population density, cultural transmission between non-relatives accelerates; knowledge production by an individual makes his culture more attractive. Individuals reallocate some of energy surplus from reproduction to knowledge production, causing technological growth. The model fits observed demographic transition patterns.
Z19|Foreign Language Anxiety in Professional Contexts|Abstract While increasing globalization of the business world and rising numbers of people working in foreign language contexts are undoubted facts of modern work life, there are surprisingly few studies on individuals’ emotional reactions to working in a foreign language. Facilitating further research, we introduce a short scale for foreign language anxiety that is applicable in business and other professional contexts. Additionally, we investigate its relationship with gender and general personality traits. Our analysis of survey data from 320 adult bilinguals with Dutch as their mother tongue and English as foreign language demonstrates the reliability of the short scale. Furthermore, we find that females experience higher levels of FLA, but that this association is mediated by differences in personality. Our study contributes to the emerging literature on individuals’ (emotional) responses to using foreign languages in business contexts.
Z19|Growth, deregulation and rent seeking in post-war British economy| Post-war political consensus about the need for government action to rectify market failure began to unravel in the 1970s, and even the need for prudential control of banking and finance began to be challenged by the start of the 1980s. Regulatory oversight was relaxed in the belief that emerging techniques in financial engineering would render irrelevant fears of sharp periodic downturns that have historically been the consequence of lightly regulated finance. The outcome of this new policy, embracing the idea of unregulated markets to deliver greater prosperity, is disappointing. We find that the average growth rate of UK GDP and output per person employed for three decades from the start of liberalization was no greater than that in the previous three post-war decades. Cyclical fluctuations were deeper. A remarkable feature of the second period is the sharp rise in income inequality in favour of the very top earners. An illusion of greater prosperity for a wider segment may have been created in the second period due to asset price bubbles and housing inflation.
Z19|Les Motivations Microéconomiques Des Transferts De Fonds Au Burkina Faso : La Culture Est-Elle Déterminante ?|Cet article analyse les déterminants des transferts de fonds des mi-grants burkinabè vivant en Côte d’Ivoire. Pour ce faire, nous avons effectué une enquête de terrain où les migrants interrogés ont été sélectionnés par la mé-thode « boule de neige ». A l’aide d’un modèle Tobit les résultats économé-triques montrent que les transferts de fonds des migrants burkinabè sont guidés par des motifs subjectifs et des traits culturels où dominent le sentiment d’attachement à leur pays, l’altruisme, l’entraide, l’esprit communautaire, la solidarité et le conformisme.
Z19|La network governance del Circuito teatrale regionale. Una prospettiva di rete per lo sviluppo dello spettacolo dal vivo in Puglia. Un primo studio sui Teatri Abitati|This paper aims to investigate a theoretical model about network governance. The object of study is the experience of performing arts into Puglia Region. The importance of analyzing the network is to comprise the characteristics of the latter and methods of interaction and management within forms public-private partnership and to understand the impact of the network in terms of performance for those involved. It is a case study with exploratory purposes. It is a first analysis to be developed later, making it a multiple case study. Regarding the latter, the study aims to contribute with this, and future developments to other cases, to the literature in terms of network performance assessment, still not analyzed. The network appears to have some flexible in the face of the various changes of scenery, which is why it has developed into complex areas as it may be cultural sector and in specific the sector of performing arts.
Z19|A biologically inspired model of distributed online communication supporting efficient search and diffusion of innovation|We inhabit a world that is not only “small” but supports efficient decentralized search – an individual using local information can establish a line of communication with another completely unknown individual. Here we augment a hierarchical social network model with communication between and within communities. We argue that organization into communities would decrease overall decentralized search times. We take inspiration from the biological immune system which organizes search for pathogens in a hybrid modular strategy. Our strategy has relevance in search for rare amounts of information in online social networks and could have implications for massively distributed search challenges. Our work also has implications for design of efficient online networks that could have an impact on networks of human collaboration, scientific collaboration and networks used in targeted manhunts. Real world systems, like online social networks, have high associated delays for long-distance links, since they are built on top of physical networks. Such systems have been shown to densify i.e. the average number of neighbours that an individual has increases with time. Hence such networks will have a communication cost due to space and the requirement of building and maintaining and increasing number of connections. We have incorporated such a non-spatial cost to communication in order to introduce the realism of individuals communicating within communities, which we call participation cost. We introduce the notion of a community size that increases with the size of the system, which is shown to reduce the time to search for information in networks. Our final strategy balances search times and participation costs and is shown to decrease time to find information in decentralized search in online social networks. Our strategy also balances strong-ties (within communities) and weak-ties over long distances (between communities that bring in diverse ideas) and may ultimately lead to more productive and innovative networks of human communication and enterprise. We hope that this work will lay the foundation for strategies aimed at producing global scale human interaction networks that are sustainable and lead to a more networked, diverse and prosperous society.
Z19|Rankings scientists, journals and countries using h-index|Indexes in scientometrics are based on citations. However, in contrast to the journal impact factor, which gives only the ranking of the scientific journals, ordered by impact factor, indexes in scientometrics are suitable for ranking of scientists, scientific journals and countries. In this paper the h-index, h5-index, the World ranking the top of 25 Highly Cited Researchers (h > 100) and the ranking of 25 scientists in Hungarian Institutions according to their Google Scholar Citations public profiles are considered. These indexes (h5-index) are applied for making of the list of top 20 publications (journals and proceedings) in the field of Robotics. The World ranking is done of the best 50 countries according to h-index in year 2014. Data are obtained from the portal Scimago.
Z19|Comparison of composite restoration techniques|This article briefly presents the classification, and possible ways of application of composites. Our objective was to compare three different restoration technique in class II cavity preparations, with the aim to determine which technique is the most advantageous in practical point of view. Artificial teeth fabricated from self-curing acrylic resin were used as models. Comparison of marginal sealing was performed macroscopically via direct visual inspection and via tactile control. Two parameters were examined on esthetic evaluation, which were the anatomical shape and the optical appearance. The time required to prepare the restorations were also measured. After the evaluation of the results, the bulk-fill technique was demonstrated to require the shortest time to be performed. This was followed by the oblique (Z) technique, whereas the horizontal incremental technique appeared to be the most time-consuming method. Based on the esthetic evaluation, a remarkable difference can be observed between the bulk-fill technique and the other two incremental techniques, while the mean scores for the oblique and the horizontal techniques were comparable. Based on the results of the visual inspection and instrumental examination, there were no differences in terms of marginal sealing between the three applied methods. Based on these, the use of the appropriate incremental technique can reduce the development of secondary caries and increasing the longevity of composite restorations.
Z19|Error detection analysis of aircraft information-communication system using information entropy|Contemporary transport aircraft information-communication system is extremely sophisticated. The aim of the current study is to give contribution to the current knowledge of information entropy, and to show how its alteration could indicate possible errors, which may lead to preventing future aircraft calamities. In this study a principle model of such system is described, consisting of two peripheral, sensory units and their central, processing units, upon which a numerical simulation is carried out. Two states of the system are defined – states of regular and irregular dynamics. Data transfer between system elements is defined through information entropy, whose average change and accompanying standard deviation shows the difference between the regular and non-regular state. When introducing an error of the same kind upon each of the sensors, the type of results corresponds to a sufficiently intensive deviation, which may make error detection by information entropy analysis possible.
Z19|Mathematical modelling of unmanned aerial vehicles with four rotors|Mathematical model of an unmanned aerial vehicle with four propulsors (quadcopter) is indispensable in quadcopter movement simulation and later modelling of the control algorithm. Mathematical model is, at the same time, the first step in comprehending the mathematical principles and physical laws which are applied to the quadcopter system. The objective is to define the mathematical model which will describe the quadcopter behavior with satisfactory accuracy and which can be, with certain modifications, applicable for the similar configurations of multirotor aerial vehicles. At the beginning of mathematical model derivation, coordinate systems are defined and explained. By using those coordinate systems, relations between parameters defined in the earth coordinate system and in the body coordinate system are defined. Further, the quadcopter kinematic is described which enables setting those relations. Also, quadcopter dynamics is used to introduce forces and torques to the model through usage of Newton-Euler method. Final derived equation is Newton’s second law in the matrix notation. For the sake of model simplification, hybrid coordinate system is defined, and quadcopter dynamic equations derived with the respect to it. Those equations are implemented in the simulation. Results of behavior of quadcopter mathematical model are graphically shown for four cases. For each of the cases the propellers revolutions per minute (RPM) are set in a way that results in the occurrence of the controllable variables which causes one of four basic quadcopter movements in space.
Z19|The development of self structures and active coping|In addition to cope with usual stressful circumstances at work, nowadays, it is important to examine what kind of mental capacities of medical staff are adaptive in respect of a new type of stress - job insecurity. Special focus is put upon self structures as personality determinants and the role they have in coping.. The aim of the study was to determine the role of the self structures in active coping with job insecurity. It was supposed that the increasing integration of self structures leads to increasing use of active coping strategies. Perceived job insecurity was measured by The job insecurity perception scale (Kneževiæ and Majstoroviæ, 2013). The Ego Functioning Questionnaire (Majstoroviæ, Legault and Green-Demers, 2008) was used to evaluate types of ego-functioning; coping were assessed by the Cybernetic coping scale (Edwards and Baglioni, 1993). In order to test the hypothesis the multivariate regression analysis was developed with self-regulation as predictor and active coping strategy as a criterion. A significant model F(3, 306) = 26,73, p
Z19|Nonbusiness Innovációk A Gazdaságban| A XXI. századi tudásgazdaság (és tudástársadalom) kulcskérdése az innováció, a szereplők innovativitása, az innovatív megoldások hálózatos terjedése, az innovációs ökoszisztémák kiépülése, működése, és értelemszerűen mindezek összefüggése a versenyképességgel. A versenyképesség alapvetően az üzleti szektorhoz kapcsolódó fogalom, amelynek szereplői számára ez nem cél, hanem eszköz a fennmaradás és a fejlődés (növekedés) érdekében, és az üzleti (business) jellegű innovációk a versenyképesség biztosítását szolgálják. Miután a verseny globalizálódik, intenzitása növekszik, feltételei pedig dinamikusan változnak, az üzleti innováció fogalma is egyre bővül annak figyelembevételével, hogy az üzleti tevékenységek mely területén milyen innovatív megoldások kerülnek előtérbe. Bár a gazdaság másik szektorában, a nonbusiness szektorban (azaz a közszférában és a nonprofit szférában) a szereplők az üzleti vállalkozásoktól alapvetően eltérő célokat követnek, és a verseny is sajátos módon jelenik meg, a minél hatékonyabb működés követelménye itt is egyre erőteljesebben érvényesül. Ennek megfelelően a nonbusiness szektorban is növekszik az igény az innovatív megoldásokra. Ezeket gyakran az üzleti szektorból adaptálják, de a speciális célok, működési feltételek miatt szükség van eredeti, nonbusiness innovációkra is, sőt már tapasztalható, hogy sikeres nonbusiness megoldások átszivárognak az üzleti szektorba is. Az pedig külön érdekesség, hogy mind az üzleti, mind a nonbusiness szektor előszeretettel merít az evolúció során sikeresnek bizonyult természeti megoldások („innovációk”) közül is (lásd: innovációs ökoszisztémák, cirkuláris ökonómia), főként, ha a fenntartható fejlődést szolgáló „zöld” innovációkról van szó. A nemzetközi versenyképességi és innovációs elemzések azt mutatják, hogy az országok versenyképessége ma már nemcsak az üzleti szektor versenyképességén (azaz innovativitásán), de a nonbusiness szektor, sőt ezen túlmenően a társadalom innovativitásán is múlik. Célunk feltárni ennek a komplex kérdéskörnek néhány fontos területét. -------------------------------------------------------------------- The key questions of the knowledge-economy (and knowledge society) in the 21-st century are innovation, innovativity of actors, network-based dissemination of innovative solutions, building up and operating innovation ecosystems and their interrelationship with competitiveness. Competitiveness is a term of the business sector basically being a tool used in the interest of sustaining and developing and not a purpose for its actors. The business purpose (type) innovations serve the competitiveness. Because of the globalization, the increasing intensity and rapidly changing conditions of competition the term of business innovation is widening depending on what kind of innovations becomes more popular in the business. The actors of the other sector of the economy (the nonbusiness sector that is the public sphere and the NGO-sphere together) follow objectives basically different from enterprises based on very special conditions of competition but the criteria for efficiency become more and more important for them. That’s why the need for innovative solutions is increasing in the nonbusiness sector too. These solutions are adopting often from the business sector but there is a strong need also for special innovative nonbusiness solutions and there are examples for application of successful nonbusiness solutions even in the business sector. It is also interesting to see “natural” innovations adopted by both sectors (like ecosystems, circular economy) especially in the case of “green” innovations serving the sustainability. International comparative studies show that the competitiveness of countries is depending not just on the competitiveness (that is innovativity) of business sector but on the innovativity of nonbusiness sector and/or society. Our objective is to discover the main important fields of this complex issue.
Z19|The Pervasiveness Of Metaphor In The Language Of Economics|Nowadays, metaphors can be seen in a totally new light, exceeding their primary function of being used only as ornamental tropes and becoming powerful instruments of expressiveness. They are active in the development of a conceptual framework for representing new ideas, as well as in providing new meaning. With their help, readers gain a more precise understanding of the terminology and scientific concepts and therefore, contribute to a greater accuracy in the use of language. Given their pervasiveness, language becomes less abstract and more manageable in concretising, objectivising or even humanising concepts. Economy related topics are part of our everyday’s language. Having a close relationship with human beings and human society, the field of Economics becomes a rich linguistic domain which, if explored, proves to be very productive in offering semantic extension. Applying conceptual terminology to corpus material we shall try to identify, classify and gather information with specific interest in metaphors that belong to the field of Economics.
Z19|Santa Marta Real y Republicana: El accionar económico y político de la Provincia de Santa Marta en los albores de la independencia, 1810-1830|El objetivo del presente artículo es analizar las circunstancias en que se dio el proceso de Independencia en las provincias del Caribe colombiano, centrado en las acciones ocurridas en la provincia de Santa Marta. Se busca conocer el accionar económico y político de los indígenas, los comerciantes catalanes, los militares venezolanos y los criollos de Santa Marta durante la guerra de Independencia y sus motivaciones para defender la monarquía española o la nueva República. En los albores de la Independencia, la historia de Santa Marta muestra que las autoridades coloniales favorecieron en ocasiones los intereses de los indígenas. Estas acciones generaron fidelidad de los indígenas ante el régimen colonial, el cual ya conocían y no les generaba grandes incertidumbres. La inclinación política de cada grupo estuvo mediada por su desenvolvimiento económico, que también se analizará en este documento. En el caso de Santa Marta, su economía giraba en torno a la actividad portuaria, el comercio interno y externo, así como a los cultivos de caña en las cercanías de la ciudad. En el resto de la provincia la actividad económica dominante fue la ganadería, principalmente en la zona de Valledupar, Valencia de Jesús y Plato.
Z19|Variabilita Európskej Identity: Disparity V Percepcii Identity Európy Na Úrovni Členských Štátov Európskej Únie (Variability Of The European Identity: Disparities In The Perception Of The Identity Of Europe At The European Union Member States Level)|Štúdie na tému európskej identity možno vo všeobecnosti rozdeliť na tie, čo sa zaoberajú európskym povedomím a tie, v ktorých je diskutovaná identita Európy. Obe dimenzie európskej identity, európske povedomie i identita (imidž) Európy, sú charakteristické relatívne vysokou mierou priestorovej variability, a to predovšetkým na úrovni jednotlivých národných štátov. Kým však medzinárodné disparity v miere európskeho povedomia bývajú predmetom analýz pomerne často, analýzy medzinárodných, či iných priestorových rozdielov v percepcii identity Európy, sú veľmi zriedkavé. Pritom, ak chceme byť schopní adekvátne interpretovať existujúce medzinárodné rozdiely v miere európskeho povedomia, musíme nevyhnutne začať venovať vyššiu pozornosť medzinárodným disparitám v percepcii Európy. V prezentovanom článku sú analyzované disparity v percepcii identity Európy na úrovni jednotlivých krajín Európskej únie a ich skupín. Analýza je založená na údajoch získaných v rámci prieskumu Eurobarometer 73.3 realizovaného v roku 2010. Prieskum potvrdil predpokladaný vzťah medzi identitami jednotlivých krajín EÚ a príslušnou národnou percepciou Európy. (Studies on European identity can be broadly divided into those dealing with European consciousness and those, in which the identity of Europe is discussed. Both European consciousness and the perception of the identity of Europe (the image of Europe) are characterized by a relatively high degree of spatial variability, especially at the level of individual nation states. However, while international disparities in the degree of European consciousness have been subject of analysis quite frequently, analyzes of international or other spatial differences in the perception of the identity of Europe are very rare. If we want to be able to adequately interpret existing international differences in European consciousness, we must necessarily start paying more attention to international disparities in the perception of Europe. The paper takes a closer look at disparities in the perception of the identity of Europe across individual European Union countries and their groups. Analysis of disparities is based mainly on data derived from the Eurobarometer 73.3 survey, which took place in 2010. The survey confirms the assumed relationship between the identities of individual nation states and the particular national perceptions of Europe.)
Z19|Language Rights - A Welfare-Economics Approach|Distributions of language rights in multilingual settings are analyzed from a normative viewpoint in this chapter. If the cost structure of providing rights is concave in the number of beneficiaries, then a critical-mass criterion for the determination of an optimal rights structure results. It is further shown that an efficiency analysis based on a ‘naive’ cost-benefit calculation has to be augmented in various ways if rights influence the status of a language, which in turn influences the preferences for language rights. Also the inter-generational transfer of language repertoires to the next generation leads to an endogeneity of preferences. The endogeneity of preferences in turn can make the cost-benefit analysis contradictory. In a welfare-maximizing approach, redistribution goals further modify the analysis.
Z19|Die Generalversammlung der Vereinten Nationen und ihre Voreingenommenheit gegenüber Israel|Der Nahostkonflikt ist ein wiederkehrendes Thema bei den Sitzungen der Generalversammlung der Vereinten Nationen. Besonders dem Staat Israel kommt große Aufmerksamkeit zu. In einer neuen Studie wird anhand verschiedener Indikatoren untersucht, inwiefern sich diese Fokussierung erklären lässt.
Z19|Constructing Organizational Discourse. A Symbolic Action In Improving Work|Social constructionism, a postmodern approach with epistemological assumptions, brings new resources for organizational interventions. A key element in organizational development, the discourse plays an important role in fashioning the future of this. This article presents the organizational discourse as a symbolic action in which discourse influence behavior of members and reinforces mindsets. Discourse shapes the relations between individuals, and creates mental frames. Create change by changing the discourse generates fresh new possibilities and innovative forms to look at a situation. Constructing a positive organizational discourse offers a great potential for social change and address challenges and advances thinking in the organizational field.
Z19|About Welfare In Cultural Context|This article aims to briefly analyze the research efforts on measuring welfare indices in terms of cultural relativism. It presents the limitations of GDP and some of the proposed alternatives over time, to understand the wideness and interest in this topic, but also the consequences of imposing a certain type of indicators to reflect the progress and welfare of a country. To provide a coherent overview on the proposed subject, the approach starts with the presentation of general acceptation of the welfare concept. Further, the literature review reveals many concerns about the welfare and progress, but also the difficulties associated with this effort. Critical comments generally reflect the need to consider the culture factor in the debate on welfare.
Z19|Santa Marta Real y Republicana : El accionar económico y político de la Provincia de Santa Marta en los albores de la independencia, 1810-1830|El objetivo del presente artículo es analizar las circunstancias en que se dio el proceso de Independencia en las provincias del Caribe colombiano, centrado en las acciones ocurridas en la provincia de Santa Marta. Se busca conocer el accionar económico y político de los indígenas, los comerciantes catalanes, los militares venezolanos y los criollos de Santa Marta durante la guerra de Independencia y sus motivaciones para defender la monarquía española o la nueva República. En los albores de la Independencia, la historia de Santa Marta muestra que las autoridades coloniales favorecieron en ocasiones los intereses de los indígenas. Estas acciones generaron fidelidad de los indígenas ante el régimen colonial, el cual ya conocían y no les generaba grandes incertidumbres. La inclinación política de cada grupo estuvo mediada por su desenvolvimiento económico, que también se analizará en este documento. En el caso de Santa Marta, su economía giraba en torno a la actividad portuaria, el comercio interno y externo, así como a los cultivos de caña en las cercanías de la ciudad. En el resto de la provincia la actividad económica dominante fue la ganadería, principalmente en la zona de Valledupar, Valencia de Jesús y Plato.
Z19|One-child policy and family firms in China|Family business plays important roles to fuel economic growth in China. Due to the one-child policy, family firms are increasingly facing human capital constraints for within-family succession. Having only one heir decreases the probability of continuing family management by over 3%, reduces the probability of adult children working in family firms by 14%, and significantly decreases founders' expectations of having young heirs for succession. Having fewer children negatively affects founder's expectation to go public, reduces family firm's reinvestment rate and R&D. Overall, the evidence suggests that the human capital constraints due to the one-child policy impose significant negative impacts on within-family succession. Dynastic management of family firms remains an important challenge for first-generation entrepreneurs in China.
Z19|In fatal pursuit of immortal fame: Peer competition and early mortality of music composers|We investigate the impact of peer competition on longevity using a unique historical data set of 144 prominent music composers born in the 19th century. We approximate for peer competition measuring (a) the number or (b) the share of composers located in the same area and time, (c) the time spent in one of the main cities for classical music, and (d) the quality of fellow composers. These measures suggest that composers' longevity is reduced, if they located in agglomerations with a larger group of peers or of a higher quality. The point estimates imply that, all else equal, a one percent increase in the number of composers reduces composer longevity by ∼7.2 weeks. Our analysis showed that the utilized concentration measures are stronger than the personal factors in determining longevity, indicating that individuals' backgrounds have minimal impact on mitigating the effect of experienced peer pressure. The negative externality of peer competition is experienced in all cities, fairly independent of their population size. Our results are reaffirmed using an instrumental variable approach and are consistent throughout a range of robustness tests. In addition to the widely known economic benefits associated with competition, these findings suggest that significant negative welfare externalities exist as well.
Z19|Analisi di resilienza delle reti complesse ed efficacia delle politiche pubbliche di contrasto alla criminalità organizzata|This paper aims to show in which way the joint use of analysis techniques of the complex networks and the human capital economics might lead to the implementation of new and more effective policies to contrast organized crime. For this purpose, the paper employs an interdisciplinary approach and studies, making use of the techniques and concepts of Social Network Analysis, the structure of existing interpersonal relationships inside two criminal networks engaged respectively in international drug trafficking and in the local providing of social welfare services to the person. The study of the above mentioned networks is based on the analysis of judicial acts issued in the context of two recent police operations successfully completed. The results highlight the remarkable ability of networking and the resilience to law enforcement activities of the examined criminal organizations, suggesting the adoption of new and diversified repressive policies based on the analysis of human capital which these organizations can use for their own purposes.
Z19|La valeur des langues dans l’activité professionnelle|Ce chapitre propose une analyse de la valeur des langues dans l'activité professionnelle en mettant l’accent sur l'estimation des différentiels de revenu du travail qui peuvent être attribués aux compétences linguistiques des individus. Une attention particulière est portée aux études qui évaluent la rentabilité des compétences en français, notamment sur la base de données suisses et canadiennes. L'auteur propose ensuite trois prolongements possibles de la question : (i) les manières alternatives d’aborder la valorisation des compétences linguistiques sur le marché du travail, (ii) la transposition au plan macro-économique de considérations qui relèvent, pour l’essentiel, de l’analyse micro-économique ; (iii) les taux de rendement sociaux, qui proposent une lecture de la rentabilité des compétences sur le plan de la collectivité. Il ouvre ensuite une discussion des différents résultats exposés dans ce chapitre sous l’angle des politiques publiques, notamment des politiques linguistiques.
Z19|La valeur des langues dans l’activité professionnelle|Ce chapitre propose une analyse de la valeur des langues dans l'activité professionnelle en mettant l’accent sur l'estimation des différentiels de revenu du travail qui peuvent être attribués aux compétences linguistiques des individus. Une attention particulière est portée aux études qui évaluent la rentabilité des compétences en français, notamment sur la base de données suisses et canadiennes. L'auteur propose ensuite trois prolongements possibles de la question : (i) les manières alternatives d’aborder la valorisation des compétences linguistiques sur le marché du travail, (ii) la transposition au plan macro-économique de considérations qui relèvent, pour l’essentiel, de l’analyse micro-économique ; (iii) les taux de rendement sociaux, qui proposent une lecture de la rentabilité des compétences sur le plan de la collectivité. Il ouvre ensuite une discussion des différents résultats exposés dans ce chapitre sous l’angle des politiques publiques, notamment des politiques linguistiques.
Z19|Les distances linguistiques et leurs effets sur les comportements économiques|Après avoir défini différentes manières de calculer les distances entre les langues (méthode lexico-statistique, distances de Levenshtein, distances basées sur les arbres linguistiques ou encore distances phonétiques) et entre groupes de population, ce chapitre propose d'explorer comment ces distances linguistiques ont été récemment utilisées par les économistes et permettent d'améliorer notre compréhension de certains comportements macro et microéconomiques dans des domaines tels que celui de la mesure de la diversité des populations, du commerce international, des migrations, de la traduction littéraire, de l’apprentissage des langues, ou encore des résultats du concours Eurovision. Ce chapitre montre également comment les distances linguistiques peuvent aider à analyser de réformes linguistiques, notamment dans la gestion des langues dans un pays ou une région où coexistent plusieurs langues.
Z19|Les distances linguistiques et leurs effets sur les comportements économiques|Après avoir défini différentes manières de calculer les distances entre les langues (méthode lexico-statistique, distances de Levenshtein, distances basées sur les arbres linguistiques ou encore distances phonétiques) et entre groupes de population, ce chapitre propose d'explorer comment ces distances linguistiques ont été récemment utilisées par les économistes et permettent d'améliorer notre compréhension de certains comportements macro et microéconomiques dans des domaines tels que celui de la mesure de la diversité des populations, du commerce international, des migrations, de la traduction littéraire, de l’apprentissage des langues, ou encore des résultats du concours Eurovision. Ce chapitre montre également comment les distances linguistiques peuvent aider à analyser de réformes linguistiques, notamment dans la gestion des langues dans un pays ou une région où coexistent plusieurs langues.
Z19|Dance Participation and Attendance in Denmark|Dancing may be one of the most competitive professions availabl career-wise. The lack of job opportunities and the competitiveness, the inherent expense in costumes and training and the high risk of injuries mean that only few dancers are able to make it their profession. However, dancing is an activity that comes with positive externalities, as various socioeconomic benefits are experienced by those who practice dance non-professionally. Despite the importance of dancing, very little is known with respect to the profiles of dancers. This paper, by availing of an information database on cultural preferences and habits in Denmark for 2004, illustrates the profiles of dancers and dance audiences and so deepens the current knowledge on the functioning of the dance market. We show that there exists a very strong positive correlation between cultural participation and the well-being of a society. These links are carefully described in the paper.
Z19|Sinitic Traits in Viet and Muong Song Lore|This article is devoted to the study of Viet and Muong song lore. The traditional view on folk songs of the Viets assumes autochthonous music and poetry as opposed to high Vietnamese Sinicized culture. In reality, high and popular culture in Vietnam were in a state of mutual influence, that’s why we can suggest that there are Sinitic traits in folk poetry and music of Viets. It can be assumed that there are Sinitic traits even in Muong song lore, but in fact Muong song lore in Muong language is not Sinicized, though Muong folk music is Sinicized
Z19|Chinese Export Painting in the Collection of the National Library of Russia|Throughout history Chinese artistic culture has developed a fairly complex system of diverse art forms and styles. Chinese export art, being created particularly to satiate constantly growing appetite of the Western world for Chinese goods, holds a specific place among them. In spite of being considered as insignificant in terms of artistic merits, nevertheless, Chinese export painting succeeded to cover a modest segment in the European market in the XVIII – XIX centuries. Unlike most other types of Chinese decorative and applied arts, Chinese export painting until recently has never been taken as a subject of scientific research. The collection of the National Library of Russia possesses a number of Chinese painting albums. Comprehensive study of these art works might bridge lacunas for research of other multitudinous kinds of Chinese export arts and crafts of the XVIII-XIX centuries
Z19|The Muong Epics of ‘The Birth of the Earth and Water’ in a Viet-Muong Comparative Perspective: An Alternative Vision of the Common Past|The paper deals with Muong epic tales included into the cycle of ‘The Birth of the Earth and Water’. These tales, which represent a type of ritual narrative performed during traditional mourning rites (Mo), are analyzed in the context of Vietnamese folk stories from a 15th century collection entitled ‘A Selection of Wondrous Tales of Linh Nam’. The comparative analysis of two bodies of narratives is used to suggest an alternative vision of the ethnic and cultural history of the Muong and the Vietnamese (Kinh).
Z19|The Domain of Surface Texture|This paper deals with the typology of surface texture expressions, such as a slippery road, a smooth wooden board, rough hands, coarse or rough fabric. We discuss both their direct uses and metaphors formed with them, such as a slippery person, a smooth speech, a rugged captain. Our language sample includes 10 Uralic languages (Finnish, Estonian, Mari, Erzya, Moksha, Udmurt, Komi-Zyrjan, Hungarian, Khanty, Nenets), as well as 5 languages from other families (Russian, English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean). The categorisation of these attributes includes primarily the division into visually perceived surfaces and surfaces perceived through physical contact. We discuss how much and in what ways the antonymic areas under observation are asymmetrical in their semantic features and combinability. One more focus in this research is to evaluate texture lexicon variation in an intragenetic study of a group of related languages in comparison with its variation across a broader sample of languages
Z19|Secession Versus Self-Determination: Some Critical Remarks on Contemporary Theories|From the beginning of the 1980s the problem of secession has become one of the most discussed topics among the political theory scholars in Western academia. Two main groups of theories which accept secession as a legitimate and morally permissible form of political action have emerged since then: remedial (or just-cause) theories and “liberal” theories. The remedial theories regard secession as a remedy which can be used against the injustices a group suffers within a state The liberal theories grant any territorially organised group a right to secede and form a new state if the latter complies with the requirements we usually demand of a contemporary democratic regime. What is common for both theories is their open acclaim of the right of self-determination. The study seeks to show that a theory of secession based on a self-determination principle must adopt a substantially wider understanding of secession than both of these theories can offer – a one which does not require a creation of a new state as a result.
Z19|Explaining Offline Participation in a Social Movement with Online Data: The Case of Observers for Fair Elections|This research investigates to which extent activity of a social movement on a social networking site is related to participation in the offline collective action. We use the data from 17 online groups representing the branches of the movement for Fair Elections in 17 districts of St.Petersburg, Russia, and compare their online parameters to real offline participation of group members in elections in the role of observers. With around 12,000 online users and over 200 offline participants, we use social network analysis and statistical analysis to obtain our results. We find that both on the group and the individual levels participation is related to online networking features and activity parameters, albeit to a modest degree, and offline leaders are especially different from the rest of the members in terms of most online features
Z19|The Moscow Pastor Sederholm and the Reception of the Philosophy of the German Idealism in Russia|Using a dialogue between the Moscow Pastor Karl Albrecht Sederholm with Schelling as an example, and referring to many unpublished archive documents and manuscripts, this article analyses the role of Sederholm in the cultural transfer between Russia and Germany and the complex interaction between theological, philosophical, religious, political and personal factors in the reception of Schelling's and Hegel's ideas in Russia in the first half of 19th century
Z19|The Cradle of Chaos: Metamorphosis of Chinese Elite, 1850s–1900s|When the Qing Empire collapsed in 1911, military groups moved to the forefront. The power of regional warlords bloomed during 1916–28, splitting China into disparate fiefdoms. The fragmentation of China largely defined the course of events in this country through all 20 century, so explaining the origins of the warlord era is important. This paper documents the prerequisites of Republican warlordism during 1850s–1900s. Through their analysis the paper argues for the direct linkage between Qing-era literati governors and Republican-era military warlords. Since the imperial government failed to crush the Taiping Rebellion, local elites gained military experience and influence, thus becoming a cradle for China’s future break-up
Z19|Compensation-Theory in the Context of Classical and Contemporary Conception of Modernization Process: Dualistic Model of Modernity, Proposed by Odo Marquard and Hermann Lubbe|Regardless of all attempts to declare the end of modernity, contemporary political researchers still take its classical conceptioninto account and attempt to redefine it with respect to present-day challenges. Nevertheless, it seems that there is little agreement on thedefinition of “modernity”. Consequently, a wide range of theories, devoted to modernity, have developed. One of the most popular is “multiple modernities”proposed by Shmuel NoahEisenstadt. According to this conception, modern societies can be defined and institutionally organized in a variety of ways. The reason for this diversity concerns the tradition and history of a particular society. For instance, intellectual and political elites in non-Western countries can produce their own understanding of modernity, combining elements of traditional politics with some elements of the classical modern program. Therefore, the role of tradition in the contemporary world is ambivalent. In modern society, tradition doesnot continually determine all spheres of life, including politics. On the other hand, tradition still influences the way in which modern institutions are organized. However, it is not clear to what extent tradition can vary the origin-program of modernity.To explore this question, we examine the alternative conception of modernity, known as compensation theory, proposed by Joachim Ritter, Hermann Lubbe and OdoMarquard. We employ a comparative analysis and demonstrate the differences between compensation theory and the conception of multiple modernieties with regard to the role of tradition in modern society.The findings of this research illustratethe reasons behind the fact that tradition can influence the original program of modernity. It also contributes fruitfullyto the discussion about modernization and modernity
Z19|The Concept of the Space Interpretation Problem in Some of the Modern Physics Multiverse Hypotheses|In order to determine the concept of space interpretation in several multiverse hypotheses, this article analyzes a number of them, which arises from some theories of modern physics. The interpretation of space in the history of philosophy and science and their interrelation with modern physical notions are presented. The research is based on the cognitive interpretation method of the contents of formalistic mathematics and physics theories, the method of comparative analysis (analysis of philosophical texts), the hermeneutical method, and the phenomenological method (analysis of representations). The author shows how the context of modern physics multiverse hypotheses contributes to new connotations in the perception of space. The research draws some conclusions about the present status of the philosophical perception of space
Z19|Perceived Threat, Contact and Attitudes towards the Integration of Immigrants. Evidence from Luxembourg|This paper examines the relation between immigration-related threat perceptions and the attitudes towards the integration (i.e. assimilation and multiculturalism) of immigrants by natives. Additionally it explores how that relationship interplays with intense contact with foreigners. The analysis is performed on a sample of natives in Luxembourg ? the country with the highest proportion of immigrants in Europe. The European Value Study from 2008 for Luxembourg and Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) is used to conduct the analyses. The outcomes of our analyses reveal that feelings of threat are associated with less support for multicultural attitudes, whereas the opposite can be found with respect to support for assimilation attitudes. Furthermore, it was found that more intense contact with immigrant friends is negatively correlated with threat perceptions and support for assimilation and positively correlated with support for multicultural attitudes. Lastly, more contact with immigrants is also directly related to integration preferences.
Z19|Integration policies and public opinion: in conflict or in harmony?|This paper investigates the statistical relationship between integration policies and public opinion toward immigrants. Overall, the eighteen reviewed studies indicate that integration policies are strongly associated with the general public?s level of perceived threat from immigrants and, perhaps, to their level of anti-immigrant attitudes. Inclusive policies can be said to reduce the level of perceived threat while exclusionary policies tend to reinforce perceptions of threat. Since most studies could not establish a causal link, further research is needed to corroborate the impact of integration policies on public opinion.
Z19|Intercultural Issues Of The Tourist Offer|Tourism is an opportunity for people from different cultures to meet and interact, to exchange ideas, traditions and ways of thinking. In this industry it is very easy to judge a person just after taking an overall look and studying her general behavior. The aim of this article is to determine the intercultural issues that can show up during the tourist act, while people belonging to different cultures interact. The research method used for creating this article is documentary study. The tourist offer shall be adapted to different types of tourist, taking into consideration some aspects as tourists’ behavior, the type of tourism they prefer and, most of all, the culture they belong to and the culture of the people from the place they visit. Despite the immense diversity of our minds, there is a structure that can serve as a basis for mutual understanding.
Z19|The Quality Of Cultural Services In The Global Economic Crisis Context|It suffices to browse the websites of only a few of the most noteworthy Romanian cultural organizations – including the website of the Ministry of Culture – to conclude that quality policies are missing. In fact, these are not the only policies that are missing, but this topic should be discussed in another paper. The objective of this paper is to analyze the progresses and the opportunities, as well as the problems and the challenges that the Romanian society and economy are facing as far as culture is concerned at the beginning of the new millennium, in the particular context of the global economic crisis: specifically, we will focus on the role of cultural organization managers in implementing quality management as the main factor in assuring the competitiveness needed to overcome the crisis. Cultural organization managers generally admit that a change is needed in order to cope with competitive pressure, but few understand how this change should be implemented. To avoid the issues associated with “change programs”, the management of cultural organizations must focus on the structure of processes, recognizing the roles and responsibilities of their employees in the processes in which they are involved.
Z19|Current Policy Of Language Teaching At European Level|Plurilingualism and intercultural education is a construction site. The teachable objects are not defined, the effects are not evaluated. These weaknesses are very important. Hence the need felt by its promoters of intellectual work to impose multilingualism as a dominant ideology and make multilingual and intercultural education a key paradigm.
Z19|Modern Times of the Civil and Economic Society|In this study paper the author elaborates on the theme of civil society in present days. He reveals the essence of the civil society, its typical signs and its conflict interaction with the Body politic. Also interpreted is the question of Economic society, which is a structural part of civil society. The Economic society expresses the interests of and defends the small and middle business, agriculture and commercial firms, and some other private enterprises. At the end, the author describes the values and the worth system of Civil society
Z19|Osobnostní typy studentů Hotelnictví SU OPF v Karviné podle temperamentu s rozložením kognitivních funkcí|Stať prozkoumává rozložení kognitivních funkcí v osobnostních typech vybraných studentů Hotelnictví SU OPF v Karviné podle Keirseyho typologie temperamentu a zjišťuje na základě sebepoznání, které kognitivní funkce v osobnostních typech studentů převažují. Úvod seznamuje se základními kognitivními funkcemi v osobnostních typech zkoumaných podle Keirseyho typologie temperamentu. První kapitola popisuje osobnost podle kognitivních funkcí a temperamentových typů. Druhá kapitola představuje jako metodu sebepoznání Keirseyho test temperamentového založení osobnosti. Třetí kapitola interpretuje rozdíly mezi osobnostními typy vybraných studentů Hotelnictví SU OPF s převahou myšlení a cítění, osobnostními typy s převahou usuzování a vnímání a s kombinací nejrozvinutějších kognitivních funkcí. Závěr potvrzuje význam všestranného rozvoje kognitivních funkcí pro osobnost a přiměřené sebehodnocení v poznaných osobnostních typech vybraných studentů Hotelnictví SU OPF v Karviné.
Z19|Management And Leadership In Cultural Institutions|Management and leadership are necessary in cultural institutions just as much as in any company. Management of cultural institutions in Croatia is a complex task, since they mostly need to rely on funding from the founder, i.e. the state, a county or a city. This paper examines possible strategies for efficient management of cultural institutions. Since cultural institutions are dependent on grants from public founders, this is frequently a challenge. The paper studies the problems that administration and management in cultural institutions are faced with, in terms of market orientation and action, on their way to efficient management. Today, efficient management requires a market-based approach because the effort and work invested, as well as the implementation of all work activities and business processes are aimed at creating income and achieving economic efficiency through planning and implementing a strategy to achieve the set and planned objectives.
Z19|The Stock Photography As A Part Of Cultural And Creative Industries Of The Digital Age|Photography of the digital age has lost the properties of a physically tangible product and has become intellectual property. Simultaneously with this process, the process of transition of photography into a mass-produced good has taken place. Market demands towards photography as a product of mass consumption often reduce the aesthetic and artistic standards that have been set by its development period in the process of photography coming to life as a medium. Despite the negative effects that accompany the transition of photography in its process of transformation into a mass-produced good, even such photographic “products” are able to encourage to a particular activity and ultimately generate revenue for numerous industries standing in the background of the “photography-product”. Production and distribution of stock photographs1 is one of the derivates of the digital age in which business in the domain of production of photographs is expanded to their distribution to users of websites and/or digital communication channels. In doing so, websites are at the same time used as distribution channels for photography as a creative product. Such symbiosis of photography – means of communication and network space – communication space – allows business association of these communication subjects and their new perspectives in the digital age. The Internet is becoming a bridge for photography, which allows it to cross into a new dimension, thus expanding its production and sales capacities. After the first 100 years of photography as a medium, its new forms of existence are just being unfolded. It is important to point out that stock photography has an important role in cultural and creative industry, which is currently in the phase of being formally defined in the Republic of Croatia.
Z19|From expert to lay theories about corruption|In order to compare expert with lay theories about corruption we asked 388 Portuguese adults, 204 men and 184 women, to fill out one of three questionnaires, which had a common part and were made up of one task of word association and several opinion scales. The main results show that lay people (a) strongly associate politics to corruption; (b) view some behaviors as more condemnable than others and as deserving of different types of punishment; (c) are aware of the different consequences of corruption; however, only the negative effect of corruption on social organization predicts the degree to which corrupt practices are considered as condemnable; (d) view Angola as presenting higher levels of corruption, namely of petty corruption, than Portugal, and as suffering more from its consequences; however, contrary to what was expected, the experience of living in a country with higher levels of corruption leads to the formation of less negative, rather than more negative, opinions about the consequences of corruption. These different aspects of lay people’s theories about corruption are discussed and synthesized.
Z19|The Effect of Parents Approach on Children Academic Achievement|The main purpose of this study is to investigate the factors that affect academic achievement. The concept of family, attachment styles, different parent attitudes and reflection on children academic lifes of these attitudes are examined.
Z19|Online Social Networks and Trust|Abstract We use Italian data from the Multipurpose Household Survey to explore how participation in social networking sites (SNS) such as Facebook and Twitter affects the most economically relevant aspect of social capital, trust. We account for measures of trust in strangers (often referred to as social trust), trust in neighbours (particularized trust) and trust in the police (institutional trust). We address endogeneity in the use of SNS by exploiting the variation in the availability of broadband for high-speed Internet, which relates to technological characteristics of the pre-existing voice telecommunication infrastructures. We find that all the forms of trust significantly decrease with participation in online networks. We discuss several interpretations of the results in light of the specific features of Internet-mediated social interaction.
Z19|Entropy, competitiveness and UEFA football ranking|This paper intends to explore the utilization of entropy through football, generalizing the interpretation of entropy. We consider it as a measure of competitiveness of football leagues and relate it to the UEFA ranking, which ranks yearly the performance of countries in European Cups. We expect that more competitive leagues, meaning that a championship is more leveled, have a better UEFA ranking. Correlating entropy with UEFA ranking, we find evidence of that relationship
Z19|How does parenthood affect life satisfaction in Russia?|The literature on life satisfaction dynamics during parenthood relies largely on data from Western countries. This paper tests the generality of previous conclusions and theoretical models by confronting them with estimates from Russia. We apply fixed effects regression for panel data to the Russia Longitudinal Monitoring Survey data from years 1994-2012. We focus on the dynamics of life satisfaction during parenthood and we investigate the moderating effect of age at first birth, income, and education. The trajectory of life satisfaction during parenthood in Russia differs from the Western one. Life satisfaction of parents does not temporarily increase in the period surrounding the first birth, but it increases during the period surrounding the second birth. Moreover, the long-term effect of parenthood on life satisfaction is positive. These results provide little support to the set-point theory of happiness, but are consistent with selection to parenthood. Planning of parenthood may be an important issue for future studies.
Z19|Culinary Tourism in Greece: Can the past define the future? A comparative analysis by using 10 case studies|This paper examines the possibility that gastronomy, based on ancient Greek values, could be part of the answer for economic prosperity through the development of food tourism in a country with harsh economic environment such as Greece. We examine if local food, culture and tourism could become great fields of new entrepreneurial and thus regional development when paired with knowledge, innovation and quality. We shall examine what the historical background on ideas such as gastronomy, entrepreneurship, and innovation in ancient Greek culture; in order prove that the answer to contemporary business practicing might be hidden in the history of the country. Real examples of innovative entrepreneurship related to gastronomy will be presented as case studies. By analyzing them, we will prove that there is an answer for potential business growth, when tailor-made solutions are applied that take into account the unique characteristics of a place while utilizing its competitive advantages.
Z19|Gestión de la propiedad intelectual en museos<BR>[Management of intellectual property in museums]|Este artículo tiene el propósito de presentar la gestión de la propiedad intelectual en museos (GPIM), en un escenario en el cual estas instituciones culturales pasaron de ser usuarios que respetaban la propiedad intelectual (PI) a gestionarla y ser intermediarios en el posible uso para terceros. Para ello, el documento explica las diferentes concepciones de museo; la discusión sobre los diversos tipos de protección de la PI; y la importancia de la GPIM. Se identificó que la PI en los museos cumple generalmente dos funciones que deben estar balanceadas: la mayor difusión social posible garantizando los derechos de autor y la explotación comercial de la PI, como fuente de recursos, con el fin de garantizar la subsistencia de la institución cultural. This article aims to present the management of intellectual property in museums, in a scenario where these cultural institutions became users who not only respect the intellectual property, but are intermediaries in the possible use for third parties. The document explains the different conceptions of museum; the discussion of the various types of intellectual property protection; and the importance of management of intellectual property in museums. It identified that intellectual property in museums generally serves two functions which must be balanced: (i) the greatest possible social diffusion ensuring the copyright and the commercial exploitation of intellectual property, in order to ensure the survival of the cultural institution.
Z19|Acceso de la mujer a cargos gerenciales en instituciones bancarias de la Provincia de El Oro<BR>[Women's access to management positions in banking institutions in the Province of El Oro]|The present study tries to qualitatively and quantitatively approach women's access to the most relevant hierarchical positions within a banking institution, specifically in the province of El Oro; Showing the different perceptions about the state of gender equity, personal visions, challenges and opportunities identified in this topic. We highlight the permanence of certain limitations and conditions of the authors related to these dynamics, but also showed the progress in aspects of presence and recognition of abilities and skills of women. Finally, with this study, it is hoped to be able to provide greater insights to the local society, to facilitate the understanding of this problem and the construction of a more equitable society.
Z19|Influence of Financial Education on Retirement Security: Evidence from the state of Illinois|ABSTRACT In this paper, we examined the role of financial literacy in retirement security for low-income minorities in Illinois. This paper also discusses extend of success among adults, couples, and elderly individuals, specifically, we develop a literature background on retirement savings and how it has been used to promote retirement security in Illinois. As one variable towards achieving retirement security, to increase the chances of a more successful outcome for minority persons faced with impending retirement issues? These are the questions this research attempts to answer. Towards understanding these issues properly, we investigate into financial literacy in Illinois. This study seeks to study how workers gain financial education required make financial decisions towards retirement also for retirement wellbeing we also review the predominant method of savings by evaluating whether people tried to achieve success through these methods, family, and place of work or financial advisors. To figure how much they need to save for retirement. Also, what are the factors that are detrimental to retirement planning in Illinois? Finally, we will find out what financial education are interrelated to others, that rely on formal methods such as retirement calculators, retirement seminars as oppose to others that rely on family / relatives or co-workers . Are those that have a higher financial literacy exposure are more likely to save more and out of debt, invest in bonds, stocks more as compared to others with lower financial education?
Z19|Lexical pitfalls of business German|The paper deals with consumer attitudes and perceptions of working life on the Czech labour market and analyses possibilities of the Czech labour market segmentation. The research is based on an analysis of data MML-TGI provided by Median agency. This data source is highly accepted in targeted marketing. In the first part the research focuses on the satisfaction of Czech people with their jobs and salary and identification of prevailing attitudes to work and employer loyalty. The next section identifies segments of the Czech labour market according to the perceived importance of selected aspects of working life. These segments are further characterized. The research results provide a new perspective on issues of employee recruitment, motivation and retention, which may be the real base for the application of HR marketing in its complexity in organizations operating on the Czech labour market.
Z19|Getting ready for the young generation to join the workforce: A comparative analysis of the work values of Chinese and Slovenian business students|Due to the ever greater cooperation between China and CEE countries, and especially the lack of research on the young generation’s work values among the latter, we fill an empirical gap and conduct a comparative analysis of work values among Chinese and Slovenian business students. We explore the relationship between national culture and differences in expressed work values. While advancement was the top item within both samples, we found a stronger instrumental value dimension for the Slovenians and a stronger social-altruistic value dimension for the Chinese. Moreover, while national culture remains a factor for understanding the work values of the young generation, it is not the dominant one. Our results offer some support for a universal or crossvergence perspective on the work values of the young generation.
Z19|Innovation, institutions and cultures: Exploring the European context|The aim of this explorative study is to provide a systematic mapping of the most innovative firms in Europe, in order to identify their distinctive local innovation dynamics in terms of geographical, sectoral and cultural distribution. The research seeks to assess whether innovation performance in Europe is “culture-specific”. From the findings, it emerges that the most innovative clusters are the Nordic Cluster, the Anglo Cluster and the Germanic Cluster. This supports the idea that innovation performance is indeed “culture-specific”.
Z19|The Significance of Lean Culture in Warehouse Management|The aim of the paper is to present the essence and benefits of the application of the Lean Management concept, both from the theoretical and empirical point of view (case study). The paper consists of two parts. In the first theoretical part there has been presented the concept of Lean Management, the main characteristics, the rules for the implementation and the advantages. In the second entirely empirical part there have been analyzed the results of the implementation of the Lean concept in warehouse management of the analyzed company. There has been carried out the assessment of the implementation of the discussed concept by means of the guidance of specialists dealing with lean management conducting Lean training in the surveyed company. Lean management has huge impact on the improvement in innovativeness and competitiveness of the analyzed company on the Polish market.
Z19|Zróżnicowania kulturowe między Polską a Niemcami według wymiarów kultury Hofstede|Celem artykułu jest określenie cech kulturowych Polaków i Niemców, opierających się na czterech wymiarach kulturowych zaproponowanych przez Geerta Hofstede na podstawie badań empirycznych przeprowadzonych z zastosowaniem tych samych kwestionariuszy badawczych, a następnie identyfikacja różnic kulturowych występujących między tymi narodami oraz porównanie wyników tych badań z wartościami wskaźników wymiarów kultury wyznaczonych przez G. Hofstede. Autorzy artykułu podejmują rozważania dotyczące zróżnicowań międzykulturowych. Pierwotne badania G. Hofstede przeprowadzone w latach 60. i 70. ubiegłego wieku w koncernie IBM pozwoliły na zidentyfikowanie czterech wymiarów kulturowych w kilkudziesięciu krajach, w tym w Niemczech. Z kolei wartości wymiarów dla Polski zostały wyznaczone przez G. Hofstede szacunkowo na podstawie innych badań kulturowych z lat 90. Niniejsze badania podjęto w celu ustalenia obecnych wymiarów kulturowych w Polsce i Niemczech, jak i określenia występujących zróżnicowań między krajami oraz porównania wyników badań z wartościami wymiarów przyjętych przez G. Hofstede. W publikacji przedstawiono teoretyczne podstawy tego projektu oraz szczegółowo wyjaśniono problem badawczy. Następnie zaprezentowano metodykę przeprowadzonych badań empirycznych opartych na potwierdzonej w badaniach innych autorów skali CVSCALE. W kolejnej części artykułu zaprezentowano wyniki oraz odniesiono się do postawionych hipotez. Wyniki wskazują, iż występują relatywnie niewielkie zróżnicowania kulturowe w czterech wymiarach kultury między Polską a Niemcami. Największe zróżnicowania mają miejsce w dwóch wymiarach, tj. w unikaniu niepewności oraz w indywidualizmie versus kolektywizmie. Ponadto porównano wyniki niniejszych badań z wartościami wymiarów kulturowych przyjętych przez G. Hofstede. Stwierdzono, iż występują zróżnicowania, które w zakresie wartości wskaźników kulturowych są znacznie większe w Polsce niż Niemczech. W podsumowaniu opracowania zawarto wnioski autorów oraz wskazano możliwości wykorzystania wyników niniejszych badań w praktyce gospodarczej i w teorii, w tym w przyszłych badaniach międzykulturowych.
Z19|Distribution strategy and movie performance: an empirical note|This paper examines the Italian movie industry and documents a significant role of distribution strategy affecting film success. While the evidence is consistent with the positive “rent capture” effect of star artists (Ravid in J Bus 72:463–492, 1999 ), the crucial role of famous directors (John et al. in Working Paper, New York University, 2004 ), their experience (John et al. in Working Paper, New York University, 2004 ), the significant impact of critics (Basuroy et al. in J Market 67: 103–117 2003 ), financing strategies (Palia et al. in Rev Financ Stud 21(2):483–511, 2008 ), and stock market reactions (Einav and Ravid in J Cultural Econ 33, 311–319, 2009 ), this paper adds the crucial role of distribution power, such as the alliance with reputable foreign distributer and the choice of theatre location, in revenue success and endurance in the market. Additionally, we find evidence of success for specialization in comics but not in R-rated action movies (Ravid and Basuroy in J Bus 77:155–192, 2004 ). Copyright Eurasia Business and Economics Society 2015
Z19|Synopsis of Soft Computing Techniques used in Quadrotor UAV Modelling and Control|The aim of this article is to give an introduction to quadrotor systems with an overview of soft computing techniques used in quadrotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) control, modelling, object following and collision avoidance. The quadrotor system basics, its structure and dynamic model definitions are recapitulated. Further on synopsis is given of previously proposed methods, results evaluated and conclusions drown by authors of referenced publications. The result of this article is a summary of multiple papers on fuzzy logic techniques used in position and altitude control systems for UAVs. Also an overview of fuzzy system based visual servoing for object tracking and collision avoidance is given together with a briefing of quadrotor UAV control techniques efficiency study. Conclusion is that though soft computing methods are widely used with good results, there is still place for much research to be done on find more efficient soft computing tools for simple modelling, robust dynamic control and fast collision avoidance in quadrotor UAV control.
Z19|The current status of the Magnetoplasma compressor device in Belgrade - study of plasma facing materials important for fusion reactors|The magnetoplasma compressor, a quasi stationary plasma accelerator, is a source of supersonic compression plasma flow. High plasma parameters of compression flow, large flow velocity and discharge duration enable their efficient usage for development of new plasma technologies, including material surface modification, creation of sub microstructures and nanostructures. In this paper spatial and temporal distribution of emissivity was studied using inverse Abel transform. This has been realized in LabVIEW environment. The plasma flow generated by quasi stationary plasma accelerators can be used for simulation of high energy plasma interaction with different materials of interest for fusion experiments. Surface phenomena are results of specific conditions during plasma flow interaction with target surface. As the next step in our research, spectral analysis of the plasma area around targets surface, after interaction between target and plasma, generated by magnetoplasma compressor, is planned. The first material which will be subjected to interaction with plasma will be a carbon fiber - material of big importance for divertor region in fusion devices.
Z19|Concepts of the Internet of Things from the Aspect of the Autonomous Mobile Robots|The Internet of Things (IoT) is slowly gaining grounds and through the properties of barcodes, QR codes, RFID, active sensors and IPv6, objects are fitted with some form of readability and traceability. People are becoming part of digital global network driven by personal interests. The feeling being part of a community and the constant drive of getting connected from real life finds it continuation in digital networks. This article investigates the concepts of the internet of things from the aspect of the autonomous mobile robots with an overview of the performances of the currently available database systems.
Z19|Motion Control of Wheeled Mobile Robots|This article presents strategy for navigation of a wheeled mobile robot in unstructured environments with obstacles. The vehicle has two wheels independently to control the angular velocity. This work deals with mobile robots modelling then control strategies and simulation results. Simulation results recommends fuzzy logic controller for the wheeled mobile robot motion in unstructured environments.
Z19|Esperanto (s)en perspektivo? Croatian Esperantists on the International Language Esperanto|To our knowledge, there is to date no significant number of sociological studies dealing with the Esperanto movement, and there are even fewer sociolinguistic explorations of the whole Esperanto phenomenon. Concentrating on the Croatian Esperanto movement, we conducted an extensive study of Croatian Esperantists? attitudes towards the structure of Esperanto, and their perception of the Esperanto movement and the overall Esperanto phenomenon - aspects still conspicuously missing in recent Esperantological research. This study offers invaluable insight into these under-researched interlinguistic areas, and also into the specific outlook of the traditional Croatian Esperanto movement.
Z19|The Francophone Area In The Context Of Globalization|In this work there is underlined how the Francophone area has developed from historical and political points of view, with an economic and geographic extension at the global level. Its economical growth was imposed by local and global politics, as well as a general economic evolution in terms of progress or gaps. The francophone area has influenced the global society in many ways and directly contributed to 'the phenomenon of Europeanizing' consolidation.
Z19|General Issues Considering Brand Equity Within The Nation Branding Process|The present work-paper was written in order to provide an overview of the intangible values that actively contribute to brand capital formation within the nation branding process; through this article, the author tried to emphasize the differences existent between brand capital and brand equity within the context of the nation branding process, which has became a widely approached subject both in the national and international literature. Also, the evolution of brand capital and brand equity was approached, in order to identify and explain their components and their role, by highlighting the entire process of their evolution under a sequence of steps scheme. The results of this paper are focused on the identification of a structured flowchart through which the process of nation branding -and the brand capital itself- are to be perceived as holistic concepts, integrator and inter-correlated ones, easily understood.The methodology used in order to write the present article resumes to all appropriate methods and techniques used for collecting and processing empirical data and information, respectively to observing, sorting, correlating, categorizing, comparing and analyzing data, so that the addressed theoretical elements could have been founded; in the center of the qualitative thematic research addressed in the present article lie general elements belonging to Romania's image and identity promotion.
Z19|Destination Branding Through Business Tourism|Considering the fat that a rate of up to 70% of tourists visiting Romania have a professional motivation, the present papers intends to provide an overview of the advantages held by Romania for offering tourists the proper conditions for spending quality time in this emerging country. Within the present article, the authors provide to readers an overview regarding destination branding, business travel and the critical elements in achieving economic advantages over competing regions/countries; the article emphasizes the fact that -intelligently exploited-, business tourism can be an element of prosperity within the tumultuous period of time through which Romania and other emerging states are crossing nowadays. The results of this paper work are focused on the identifying, analysing and correlating the main factors that can influence a destination' development through its propulsion as a brand destination for business tourism. Generally speaking, the paper approaches aspects regarding business tourism. The methodology used in order to write the present article is limited to the collection and processing empirical data and information. In this regard, the literature in the field has been reviewed, so that the authors could identify and expose the importance of destination branding through business travel for sustainable development in Romania.
Z19|Avantajele Competitive în Produc?ia Globala de Film: Cazul României|Studiul trateaza formarea si pastrarea avantajelor competitive în industria productiei de film strain în România printr-o examinare a conditiilor integrarii productiei localizate în România în circuitul creator de valoare la nivel global. Evidenta are la baza surse documentare ale sectorului sau din literatura de specialitate, dar si interviuri cu reprezentanti ai unor case de productie importante, interviuri realizate între decembrie 2004 si februarie 2005 si între iulie si august 2011. Lucrarea pune în evidenta mecanismele care frâneaza sau care împing înainte performantele sectorului din perspectiva durabilitatii avantajelor industriei. Detaliile studiului de caz privind România sunt evidentiate pe linia elementelor clasice de analiza a avantajelor competitive. Prima sectiune se ocupa de formarea avantajelor în industria globala a productiei de film. Urmatoarea sectiune prezinta pe scurt contextul competitiv din Europa rasariteana, iar în sectiunea dedicata României este adus în discutie impactul asupra dezvoltarii locale. Sectiunea de concluzii încearca sa aduca un raspuns la întrebarea daca sprijinul public direct este necesar pentru consolidarea efectelor pozitive ale avantajelor dobândite.
Z19|Cross-Cultural Incentives For The Fdi|In order to invest there are some incentives needed, including among them, certainly, the ones discussed and analysed in the scientific literature such as: specific earning chances (expectations) of each participant (wage, profit, dividend, budget revenue, etc.), potential investor’s general or current state, etc.. Less visible incentives from complex areas not obviously related to the investment are, however, less considered. Among these could be incentives arising from inherited or education and culture transmitted philosophy, generally regarding earnings, business and investment.We notice these incentives in case of FDI in different shades and intensities.Investor’s decision to acquire, sell or to carry out projects in a particular area, region or country is not only due to purely economic, commercial or financial reasoning. In such operations, meeting among businessmen, managers and other professionals in the field is, first of all, meeting in specific circumstances, among more or less different cultures.Both theory and practice must be concerned in what way and to what extent these factors influence the investment intention, outcome and yield. Our study proposes a list of the most important cultural type incentives for investment (mainly FDI), based on a set of cases, through a logical and empirical research, using some of the most relevant and recent studies and several real situations to which we got access. These are early data and analysis that will allow us to draw attention to the problem and to develop further research to reach generalizable results
Z19|Culture Et Management: Le Model D’Hofstede En Question|Extensive research has been conducted looking at the links between culture and management. Studies have examined, among other components of the managerial activity captured by power distance, individualism, etc. However; these studies assume the existence of a national culture, something largely absent in most countries that are dominated by the cultures of their various ethnic communities. Different cultures perceive the benefits differently,found significant differences between cultures in perceptions and organizational/ Managerial practices. Our modest contribution is structured in two parts: the first part concerns the presentation of the Hofstede model and analysis through this model on some African societies, the second reserved for discussing expose in socio-cultural characters that influences the African Management and limitations of the model of cultural dimensions of Hofstede and conclusion.
Z19|Symbolic Communication Of Traditional Costume From Banat County|The historic province Banat covers a variety of landscapes from Romania, Serbia and Hungary, which shows the cohabitation of a mixed ethnic population, each with its own identity and particularities. In this multicultural context, the messages were transmitted through decorative elements of the traditional costume. This paper analyzes the symbolism of the traditional costume from Banat County, decrypting many messages that communicate important elements about the social identity and culture of Banat’s people. In the actual European context, each historical region tries to preserve its national culture, aspects of their identity, shown inclusively through the iconic elements such as traditional costumes specific to each region, which gives a perspective of the main regional features. The methodology used in this micro study is accomplished upon observation and semiotic analysis. The study concludes that Banat’s traditional costume has in the national and international context, an unique symbolism, which promotes the multicultural identity of the Banat Region.
Z19|Knowledge generating features of intelligent textiles industry|The intelligent textiles industry uses the results of a wide range of scientific research fields which are multidisciplinary and cover the so called „key enabling technologies”. For the moment there are only a few countries generating and using this knowledge with impact on competitiveness, national development and creating high level paid jobs. The cultural differences among countries regarding the business approach and the ability to use certain knowledge bring more or less advantages for those countries. This paper covers two case studies, one about Elmarco from Liberec, Czech Republic, producing nanofiber and the other one about GreenYarn from Boston, Massachusetts, producing advanced materials. Both examples are using nanotechnology, one of the key enabling technologies.
Z19|Social Networks And Interpersonal Communication|Social networks visible influence people's ability to interact and communicate. Extending social circles by establishing virtual links involves a number of positive aspects such as: instant access to options for interaction, sharing of information to large communities of people, intensification of acts of communication, high levels of feedback and trust with people with whom we communicate. On the other hand, social networks adversely affects communication by decreasing the interaction face to face, by imposing superficial communications experiences, grammatical and spelling erosion of the language. Therefore, the study aims to capture the spread of social networks, their use and impact on interpersonal communication. More specifically, they look for the answer to the question: what is the nature of interpersonal communication that is found on social networking sites: personal, emotional, private or shared, informal, and public?
Z19|Modelo pedagógico para el aprendizaje en red basado en el constructivismo sociocultural: una alternativa para la apropiación de conocimiento en América Latina|El presente artículo propone, desde un análisis académico, un modelo pedagógico aplicable en ambientes virtuales de aprendizaje, basado en el constructivismo sociocultural, enfatizando en dos estilos de aprendizaje: el aprendizaje situado y el aprendizaje colaborativo. El modelo se ha denominado “modelo de constructivismo virtual y sociocultural para el aprendizaje en red” aprovecha los beneficios y el potencial de las redes sociales y de las herramientas web 2.0 para la construcción de conocimiento. Igualmente, se determina el papel que desempeñan y las interacciones que se presentan entre conocimiento, docente, estudiante y herramientas didácticas, logrando de esta forma una propuesta pedagógica flexible y abierta. El modelo que aquí se plantea, permite que otras personas puedan enriquecerlo; o tomarlo como punto de partida para el desarrollo de modelos alternativos.
Z19|La política editorial de acceso abierto: horizontes de la democratización del conocimiento para el desarrollo|El propósito de este texto es analizar los horizontes abiertos por la política editorial de acceso abierto en América Latina, en virtud de sus potencialidades para aportar en el desarrollo de la región. Para este efecto, el texto tiene tres secciones. En la primera se revisa el origen de este movimiento y su recepción en América Latina; se verá que más allá de resolver los problemas de financiación de la circulación del conocimiento científico, acceso abierto es una apuesta política desde la ciencia. En la segunda sección se esclarecerá qué se entiende por desarrollo. Por último se examina la idea de “democracia del conocimiento” como una práctica de la ciencia y como una apuesta política, y las relaciones de la democracia del conocimiento con el desarrollo.
Z19|Can Tax Compliance Research Profit from Biology?|Historically, tax compliance has been a highly interdisciplinary avenue of research to which economics, psychology, law, sociology, history, political science, and accountancy have made valuable contributions. It is less well understood, however, whether we can glean useful insights into tax compliance by moving beyond the social sciences. In particular, the literature pays little attention to the relevance of biology. This paper attempts to remedy this shortcoming by examining the potential opportunities and limitations of introducing biological concepts into tax compliance research.
Z19|Spannung bis zum Abpfiff: die Prognose des Fußballweltmeisters ist schwieriger als bei der letzten WM|At the FIFA World Cup 2006, the method of using the market value of the teams (“transfer value”) was first proposed as a simple and transparent basis for forecasting the outcome of a major football tournament. Indeed, the countries with players of the highest market value were world champions in 2006 and 2010 (Italy and Spain, respectively), just as the most expensive team won the European Championships in 2008 and 2012 (Spain). The winner of the upcoming World Cup in Brazil can be forecast in the same way, but it is considerably more difficult to predict the result this time around. This is because the top teams are much more evenly matched - in terms of the market value of the whole squad - than in the previous tournaments when the Spanish team was clearly the most expensive one. Consequently, other factors come into play, such as level of fitness, daily form, and chance, as they did in 2006 when the top teams were also very evenly matched. Anlässlich der Fußballweltmeisterschaft 2006 wurde erstmals der Marktwert der Mannschaften („Transferwert“) als eine einfache und transparente Basis für die Prognose des Ausgangs eines großen Fußballturniers vorgeschlagen. Und tatsächlich wurden die Teams mit den höchsten Marktwerten 2006 und 2010 ebenso FIFA-Weltmeister (Italien und Spanien), wie das teuerste Team der Jahre 2008 und 2012 Europameister wurde (Spanien). Der Sieger der kommenden Fußballweltmeisterschaft in Brasilien lässt sich auf dieselbe Weise vorhersagen, allerdings fällt die Prognose dieses Mal deutlich schwerer. Denn die Mannschaften des erweiterten Favoritenkreises liegen - gemessen am Marktwert des Mannschaftskaders - enger beieinander als beim letzten Turnier, als die spanische Auswahlmannschaft deutlich die teuerste war. Es könnten daher - wie 2006, als es an der Spitze auch eng war - andere Faktoren den Fußballweltmeister ausmachen: Fitness, Tagesform - und der Zufall.
Z19|The relationship between academic consulting and research performance: Evidence from five Spanish universities|This paper investigates the relationship between engagement in consulting activities and the research performance of academic scientists. The study relies on a sample of 2678 individual faculty, from five Spanish universities, who have been recipients of publicly funded grants or have been principal investigators in activities contracted by external agents over the period 1999–2004. By implementing a propensity score matching estimator method, we show that engaging in consulting activities has an overall negative relationship with the average number of ISI-publications. However, the effect of consulting on the scientific productivity of academic scientists depends on the scientific fields and the intensity of engagement in consulting activities. Academic consulting is found to be negatively correlated with the number of publications in the fields of ‘Natural and Exact Sciences’ and ‘Engineering’, but not in the case of ‘Social Sciences and Humanities’. When the intensity of consulting activity is taken into account at the discipline level, we find that engaging in consulting activities is negatively correlated with scientific productivity only for high levels of involvement in consulting activities, but not for moderate ones.
Z19|Preferences for government interventions in the economy: Does gender matter?|The extant economics literature finds relevant differences in preferences between men and women, with the former more supportive to competition than the latter. Using survey data for twelve Western European countries this paper shows that, when asked about their preferences for the government intervention in the economy, the two genders express significantly different preferences. While women would increase regulation and social responsibility of the government, they are not opponents of competition. Nevertheless, as the number of women in leading positions in politics and business grows, the world could become more regulated and more social-oriented. The analysis also shows that the gender-related differences depend on country-specific socio-economic factors.
Z19|Social influence and the Matthew mechanism: The case of an artificial cultural market|We show that the Matthew effect, or Matthew mechanism, was present in the artificial cultural market Music Lab in one-fourth of the “worlds” when social influence between individuals was allowed, whereas this effect was not present in the “world” that disallowed social influence between individuals. We also sketch on a class of social network models, derived from social influence theory, that may generate the Matthew effect. Thus, we propose a theoretical framework that may explain why the most popular songs could be much more popular, and the least popular songs could be much less popular, than when disallowing social influence between individuals.
Z19|Computer-Based Processing Of Literary Works And Study Of Literature|Currently many software applications that enable text analysis are being created for different purposes (semantic reference tools, concordancers, sentiment analysis etc.), but are not being used by literary researchers. Computer software allows to facilitate the search of required information and to considerably save time. With such an approach to the field of linguistic and literary analysis – comparative analysis in particular – new opportunities and unexpected horizons are being offered. This paper suggests a critical review of existing computer resources related to text processing and a consistent description of program applications, successfully tested on literary materials and used for text analysis at the Faculty of Humanities (HSE Branch in Nizhny Novgorod): linguistic annotated text corpora; collections of literary texts of one author; different computer tools such as AntConc concordancer, multifunctional text analyzer LEKTA, LF aligner for text alignment – those tools which allow a variety of loaded and analyzed text collections. Computer-based text analysis shall be practiced only with further literary description and interpretation. This comparison of data retrieved in the process of computer-based analysis with existing traditional researches may mark the dawn of a new stage of literary text analysis.
Z19|Reading Passages For The Course Of Semantics: Tests For Students|The objective of this paper is to present and describe a teaching tool for linguistics students who are learning English, a tool which furthers their linguistic education at the same time as it gives them some challenging experience with reading practice with the kinds of tests they will encounter in the main international English language examinations, mainly, IELTS and TOEFL, and with English academic writing. The selected reading material introduces the foundations of formal semantics through a set of extracts from the works of classical semanticists of the 20th century, accompanied by a set of test-type questions for each of the reading passages. The comments after each test outline the characteristic features of test types presented. The importance of advancement in students’ reading potential is highlighted as crucial for their academic life in general and for their overall performance in English.
Z19|Clitics In The Beserman Dialect Of Udmurt|The Beserman dialect of the Udmurt language has a large number of clitics, mainly discourse markers, which have never been described in detail. These clitics occur very frequently in texts and often appear in clusters. The rules which govern the ordering of clitics within a cluster are especially interesting because the binary relation “clitic A normally precedes clitic B in a cluster” proves to be intransitive, thus making it impossible to use a clitic template to describe the ordering. In this paper, the rules which govern placement of individual clitics in a sentence and their mutual order in clusters are described. The research is based on a corpus of approximately 64,000 tokens and the author?s own field data collected in the village of Shamardan, Yukamensk region, Udmurtia.
Z19|Visual Image As A Trigger For Children’s Narrative|The paper focuses on narration acquisition, which is a process believed to be at least partly related to school teaching practices. The problem of constructing a story with the help of a visual image is discussed through an analysis of children’s written responses to two photographs, different in some key respects of the way in which their characters and settings are presented. The range of visual elements which can effectively trigger production of different elements of a story is also established.
Z19|The Semantics Of Apud In Lezgian|This study deals with the semantics of -w APUD, a ‘near’ locative form in Lezgian. This research is based on the Corpus of Standard Lezgian. I investigate the locative and non-locative uses of the marker through an analysis of the data, and attempt to ascertain its semantics.
Z19|Historical Roots Of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz’s Universal Science|This paper analyses different retrospective links between the scientia generalis by Leibniz and the philosophical, rhetorical and encyclopaedic traditions of the Renaissance and Early Modern Europe, emphasising the influence of Aristotle’s’ “Metaphysics” on the genesis of the concept of universal science in 17th century philosophy.
Z19|Question Of Consciousness: To Quantum Mechanics For The Answers|The article looks at the possible role of measurement in a quantum-mechanical description of physical reality. The widely spread interpretations of quantum phenomena are considered as indicating an apparent connection between conscious processes (such as observation) and the properties of the microcosm. The reasons for discrepancies between the results of observations of the microcosm and macrocosm and the potential association of consciousness with these reasons are closely investigated. This connection can be interpreted in the sense that the probable requirement for a complete understanding of quantum theory is an adequate description of consciousness within this theory and that the correct theory of consciousness should include a quantum-mechanical theoretical apparatus. The author draws conclusions about the current state of the “measuring” problem and its relationship with consciousness.
Z19|Modernization and Variations in Emancipative Values in European Societies in 1995-2008: Test of Inglehart’s Socialization Hypothesis|This paper reveals variations in value change (namely the substitution of materialist priorities for post-materialist) in Europe, and substantiates that post-socialist societies follow a similar path of development to advanced Western Europe. The linear decomposition analysis showed that Inglehart’s socialization hypothesis (Inglehart 1990), which is related to a fundamental emancipative shift in values, was true for both selected West European and East European countries with minor exceptions. However, the study demonstrates that the observed variability in value change in different countries in Europe is due to specific country-level contextual effects and not population turnover. This finding confronts the assumption of exclusiveness of socialization against historical period in forming value orientations.
Z19|When Location Does Not Matter: Membership And Networking In Online Communities Of Software Developers|Following the discussion on the role of Internet in the formation of ties across space, this paper seeks to supplement recent findings on location-dependent preferential attachment online. For this purpose, instead of looking at egonetworks, we look at networks of online communities specifically aimed at development of location-independent ties. The paper focuses on professional communities of software developers. The data are obtained automatically from the VKontakte social networking site. Evidence suggests that membership, friendship, commenting and liking ties are overwhelmingly cross-city
Z19|Genres Of Call-And-Response Songs In Vietnam|This paper is devoted to different genres of call-and-response songs in Vietnam. The call-and-response song is an antiphonal song dialogue between female and male singers. The main differences between the genres of call-and-response are related to the location and the season when they are performed. Antiphonal singing of this kind is not a distinctive feature of Viets. Similar types of singing are widely represented throughout the country among different ethnic minorities. Moreover, song dialogues are also widespread among the ethnic minorities of China and in other countries of East and South-East Asia. In Vietnam these genres have become extremely popular and exist in a variety of forms.
Z19|The Origins Of The Circassian Mamluks A Subject Of Myth-Making|Myth, legend, and history appear as constituent components in the ideology of a ruling elite. If the ruling elite is foreign, the ideology acquires a distinctive colouring. A noble lineage which could be traced to common roots shared with the autochthonous population of the country was seen by Mamluks as a tool to maintain and support their authority. A version concerning the origins of the Circassian Mamluks can be found in al-‘Ayni’s treatise which stated that the forefathers of the Circassian Sultan Tatar had been Arabs of the Ghassan tribe. The legendary version of the origin of the Circassian Mamluks narrated reveals an important aspect, which directed and shaped the development of the ideology of the Egyptian ruling elite: the eagerness of the Mamluk sultans and their entourage to find and demonstrate a relation, if remote and vague, to the country’s local population. In the Ottoman period of Egypt, a completely different political landscape together with a new socio-cultural reality necessitated the transformation of the myth: changed are the name of the forefather, his tribal affiliation and certain plot details. After the Ottoman conquest, the Mamluks of high military rank tried to recover and defend their lost positions. Another legendary version which was documented by an anonymous author of the 17th century authenticating the Quraysh origin of the Circassian Mamluks, proving their having a common ancestor with the prophet Muhammad was to sanctify the rule of the Mamluk Beys and make it seem legitimate.
Z19|Vasily Vasilievich Grigoryev: The Path Of A Russian Orientalist|"The paper outlines the life and works of the prominent Russian orientalist and rightist conservative statesman Grigoryev, the founder of Europe's first department of Oriental history, the president of 3rd International Symposium of Orientalists (St. Petersburg 1876). Grigoryev was not only a world-renowned scholar but also a top imperial bureaucrat of colonial type. In 1854-1862 he virtually ruled “the Kyrghyz” (Kazakh) steppe. This article is an output of the research project ""“Minority” vs “Majority” in the Historical and Cultural Continuum of Asia and Africa "" implemented as part of the Basic Research Program at the Higher School of Economics (HSE)."
Z19|"The ""Conquest Of Qinghai"" Stele Of 1725 And The Aftermath Of Lobsang Danjin’s Rebellion In 1723-1724"|"This paper represents an account of the text of the ""Ñonquest of Qinghai"" stele erected in 1725 in the context of the suppression of the rebellion against the Qing Empire initiated by Gushi Khan’s (1581-1655) grandson Lobsang Danjin in 1723–1724. This event became pivotal in the history of the eastern Inner Asia having influenced the situation not only in Qinghai itself, but also in Jungaria and Tibet. Why was the reduction of the rebellion of such a great importance and why did it lead to massive massacres of the lamas and destruction of the Buddhist monasteries? What was the official position of the Qing court on these events? This research offers a revision of the motives lying behind turbulent events in Qinghai of 1723–1724, based on the Yongzheng Emperor’s words carved in stone, shows his official attitude to the circumstances of the Rebellion; besides, it reveals significant aspects of his policy toward the peoples of eastern Inner Asia and outlines some aftermath of the Rebellion."
Z19|The Relationship between Added Value Growth and Entrepreneurship in Industrial Sector: Case of Sistan and Baluchestan Province|In this paper, we investigate the relation between entrepreneurship and Added Value Growth in Industrial Sector. For this purpose, we investigated the data related to sistan and Baluchestan Province in the period of 2000 to 2010 by using endogenous growth model. In this model, we set Added Value Growth in Industrial Sector as a function of entrepreneurship, physical capital and labor based on Cobb-Douglas Form. Estimated elasticity of Added Value Growth included 0.60, 0.38, and 0.92 as compared to entrepreneurship, physical capital and labor, respectively. They all have high statistical significances. The results indicate positive effect of entrepreneurship and innovation on the Added Value Growth . In other words, increase of entrepreneurship and innovation coefficient will increase Added Value of Industrial Sector in Sistan and Baluchestan Province . The positive effect of physical capital and labor on the Added Value Growth is another result of this study.
Z19|The Crisis of the Prato Industrial District in the Works of Edoardo Nesi: a Blend of Nostalgia and Self-complacency|In 2011, Edoardo Nesi - a former industrialist of the Prato textile district - won the most prestigious Italian literary Prize for his autobiographical novel Storia della mia gente, a book centered upon Prato's past industrial success and present decline. Nesi has since become a regular contributor to the Corriere della Sera, and with his latest book, Le nostre vite senza ieri, he has further emphasized his role as a public intellectual. In Nesi's view, Italy's participation in the global economy has exposed Italian manufacturers to a level of competition that they were not ready to meet. Such disadvantage, Nesi contends, was exacerbated by the adoption of the euro, which put an end to the former practice of using monetary policy to offset trade deficits. As a result, many firms lost market shares, and the Prato textile district ended up being largely taken over by Chinese businesses. This paper criticizes Nesi's account of the Italian industrial decline. In particular, it argues that his sympathetic view of the former political-industrial system is mostly an expression of self-complacency and does not positively contribute to the current debates on the Italian economic crisis.
Z19|Linguistic justice in IP policies: evaluating the fairness of the language regime of the European Patent Office|Alternative intellectual property laws relating to the use of languages in IP organisations can result in an asymmetric distribution of costs of patenting between innovators. We present a framework for the characterisation and evaluation of the fairness of the language regime of the European Patent Office (EPO), which is currently based on three official languages: English, French and German. We estimate that the costs of access to patenting procedures borne by English-, French- or German-speaking applicants are at least 30 % lower than those borne by European applicants whose first language is not one of the current official languages of the EPO. In order to correct language-related cost asymmetries, we explore two possible alternative language regimes. In both cases, we introduce a centralised system of financial compensation that covers translation costs borne by European applicants whose first language is not one of the official languages of the EPO. In the first alternative, financial compensation is covered by savings on current translation costs at the granting stage. In the second alternative, the number of official languages is increased to five and financial compensation is funded by an increase in filing fee and by partial savings on translation costs at the granting stage. We show that both alternatives could substantially reduce language-related costs asymmetries among European applicants. In addition, we show that the five-language alternative would reduce the global costs of access to patenting procedures borne by all European applicants. Thus, more multilingualism can be cheaper than less multilingualism, provided that “implicit costs” are taken into account. We conclude discussing under which conditions the alternative language regimes proposed could have a positive impact on the effectiveness and the cost-effectiveness of the EPO language regime. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
Z19|Intermediaries in corruption: an experiment|Anecdotal evidence suggests that intermediaries are ubiquitous in corrupt activities; however, empirical evidence on their role as facilitators of corrupt transactions is scarce. This paper asks whether intermediaries facilitate corruption by reducing the moral or psychological costs of possible bribers and bribees. We designed bribery lab experiment that simulates petty corruption transactions between private citizens and public officials. The experimental data confirm that intermediaries lower the moral costs of citizens and officials and, thus, increase corruption. Our results have implications with respect to possible anti-corruption policies targeting the legitimacy of the use of intermediaries for the provision of government services. Copyright Economic Science Association 2014
Z19|The effect of young children on their parents’ anime-viewing habits: evidence from Japanese microdata|Anime is now considered an accepted form of animation and is considered to represent Japanese contemporary culture worldwide. There are many fans of anime and manga, creating a community known as otaku world. However, Japanese anime and manga have gained popularity in Western countries as well as in Japan. This paper attempts to ascertain the determinants of watching anime in Japan based on individual-level data from Japan. Despite the growth in the number of adult anime fans, children are still more likely to watch anime than adults are. Hence, this study investigates how adults are influenced by the presence of their children. After controlling for individual characteristics, it was found that people are more likely to watch anime when they have children aged less than 12 years who have not yet entered junior high school. Such an effect is larger for parents who belong to an older generation where people are less likely to prefer anime. This implies that the externality coming from children results in parents watching anime. The findings of this study show that externalities from surrounding people play a critical role in enlarging the market of modern cultural goods representing “Cool Japan.” Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
Z19|Towards ExoEconomics: Developing an off-Planet Economy and Its Implications [Drumul către ExoEconomie: dezvoltarea unei economii extraplanetare şi implicaţiile acestui proces]|Over the last two decades the seeds of a New Space Era have been planted as a result of significant leaps in knowledge and technology. Whilst hampered by the tumultuous nature of our times, these seeds are growing due to a wave of entrepreneurs, industrialists and billionaire space enthusiasts that, for the first time ever, have enough wealth and the technology to drive space exploration.
Z19|The Scandal of the Goncourt Prize - Vintilã Horia|A public figure endowed with a broad cultural horizon, Vintilã Horia maintains his place among the controversial cluster of novelists belonging to the period of exile. The fact that he became the winner of the Goncourt Prize for the novel Dumnezeu s-a nãscut în exil (God was born in Exile) has generated a wave of controversy.
Z19|Gendered Geographies and the Economy of Bodily Topographies: The Representation of Border, Body and Space in Jeanette Winterson’s The Passion and Gut Symmetries|In this paper, I will approach the body as a spatial metaphor and discuss Jeanette Winterson’s „The Passion” and „Gut Symmetries” comparatively, in light of their engagement with the concept of border. While „The Passion” depicts the city of Venice a trope of female corporality, „Gut Symmetries” insists on the analogies between the body and the universe. I analyse the correspondences between the description of Venice as an amphibious (and ambiguous) land, and Villanelle’s mixture of male and female characteristics. In „Gut Symmetries”, the amalgam of ancient philosophy, superstring theory, quantum physics, Kaballah and Tarot puts into perspective the hollowness of categorizations and limits. I apply a geopolitcal and psychoaanlytical reading grid, using Anne McClintock’s concept of border loss, as well as Lacan and Kristeva’s theories. I will argue that both novels strive to reinforce a paradigm of unity.
Z19|Narrativizing Disease, Consuming the „Other”: Food, Illness and Gender Stereotypes in Jeanette Winterson’s Written on the Body|This paper tackles issues of gendered authorship and the connection female writing/female body in Jeanette Winterson’s novel, „Written on the Body”. I interpret the cancerous body of Louise from „Written on the Body” as an excessive body: the multiplication of cells in her diseased body is a metaphor of the transgressive, unbounded female body. The body turns against itself and engenders alienation, being perceived as an alien object. In the novel, disease is an equivalent of love, because both disrupt the borders of the self, threatening with the dissolution of the limit between self and other. Love is manifested as an urge to consume the body of the lover, as the tendency to be fused into a unified body. I also set out to investigate the gender indeterminacy and narratorial identity of „Written on the Body”, and to shed light on the conundrum of the genderless narrator of this novel.
Z19|The Translator behind the Scenes|In keeping with the demands of the contemporary globalising digital era, communication is heavily supported by the Internet. Addressing an international audience and having societal goals, public institutions resort to carefully designed web pages to carry the message across frontiers, cultures, strata. Engaged in these inter- and intra-cultural communicative endeavours are translators, whose presence is not always manifest, yet whose contribution to conveying and filtering information is essential. Looking into policies of advertising translation services for the community and into textual manifestations of linguistic expertise or lack thereof, the present paper aims at conferring visibility to the translator behind the scenes and at raising awareness with regard to his/ her role in a minority language speaking society. The case study proposed is that of sample documents and pages made available on or in connection with the official site of the Romanian Police.
Z19|Testing the Ricardian Model: Do the Data Confirm the Assumptions?|The insight of David Ricardo’s international trade theory can be proved by the way he managed to capture the economic problems of his era and by the fact that his theory is still studied and applied in the construction of new economic models and theories. Ricardo has accepted Adam Smith’s idea, that the “absolute advantage” determines domestic output and trade between countries, under the assumption of perfect mobility of factors of production. The aim of this paper is to do an empirical analysis of Ricardo’s model not only to test the validity of his assumptions, but also to see what are the main categories of goods that the European Union, the United States and Japan export and which specialization should each of them choose.
Z19|Epidemic Corruption: A Bio-Economic Homology|This paper aims to study corruption as an epidemic phenomenon using the epidemic diffusion model of Kermack and Mc-Kendrick (1927). We seek to determine the dynamics of corruption and its impact on the composition of the population at a given time. We determine a threshold epidemiological corruption based on the approximation of the honest population.
Z19|The Use of the Passive Voice Constructions in Business German in Contrast to Business Czech|Passive constructions are a typical morphological feature of business German. At the same time, this phenomenon is signifi cantly affected by interlingual interference. Its occurrence is frequent even in the Czech language of economics but in fact also other, corresponding means of expression may be used in Czech: active constructions, refl exive passive voice, or modal expressions. This paper looks into the occurrence of different tenses in the passive voice; examines using agents in both the languages; shows the reasons for preferring passive constructions in German and for using various equivalents of these in Czech. Finally, attention is paid to continuous and state passive verb forms in German and to diffi culties in choosing correct Czech equivalents.
Z19|The concept and terminology of strike in French in comparison with Czech|The strike is one of the clichés associated with France. Compared with other European countries, the strikes there are more numerous, more violent and more spectacular. We can evoke as such the existence of a real culture of strike in France. This situation explains the existence of a very rich vocabulary which we suggest studying in this article. The term “grève” itself came into use relatively late, at the beginning of the 19th century, replacing other expressions such as “tric” or “coalition”.
Z19|Compound Adjectives in Business German in Names of Product Properties|In German, compounding is a very productive type of word formation used for creating names of product properties. Circa 500 compound adjectives are divided into five structural groups. The frequency of both constituents of compound adjectives is examined, and their semantic relationships are characterized. The individual structural types are assigned Czech equivalents, in which compound adjectives are relatively rare. The most frequent counterparts are phrases whose core - an adjective - is determined by an adverb, a noun or a prepositional phrases in apposition.
Z19|Can Tax Compliance Research Profit from Biology?|Historically, tax compliance has been a highly interdisciplinary avenue of research to which economics, psychology, law, sociology, history, political science, and accountancy have made valuable contributions. It is less well understood, however, whether we can glean useful insights into tax compliance by moving beyond the social sciences. In particular, the literature pays little attention to the relevance of biology. This paper attempts to remedy this shortcoming by examining the potential opportunities and limitations of introducing biological concepts into tax compliance research.
Z19|The impact of local political applications on voter choices|Voters are under the influence of several factors when they vote at the local elections, so they determine the color of their vote and realize the act of voting considering these factors. Undoubtedly, the most important of these factors is the practice of political marketing. The concept of political marketing is a conceptual and factual matter entering into life of people and gaining importance with ever increasing competition in globalizing world, personal differences, diversify of expectations and requirements. This understanding, differently from the traditional marketing, aims at developing ideas and internalization of these ideas by the targeted group. Because this understanding constitutes the base of political marketing practices, in which ideas and opinions are marketed. Since political competition is very intensive at the present conditions and political parties struggle to create awareness in the minds of targeted voters by taking advantage of these political works, at the present time there is practically no party that doesn't put into effect its political marketing works in an effective way. It seems to be utopic to achieve success for political parties which donâ€™t use effectively these practices. Because political marketing sociology is fed with such science disciplines as psychology and social psychology that research and try to explain human and human behaviors. To understand voters and make acts and promises which will meet their expectations and requirements are the main indicators of political marketing practices. The conceptual and institutional framework for local political marketing is represented in this work, but the influence of political marketing practices on voters, which were applied at local elections, is tried to be determined by a public survey conducted in Isparta province.
Z19|Праздник в жизненном мире современного горожанина: новые представления и трансформации. The holiday in the modern citizen’s lifeworld: new notions and change|Целью представляемого исследования было изучение способов повседневного конструирования и воспроизводства праздников. Актуальность темы тесно связана с проблематикой рассогласованности поздних модерных практик и общества потребления. Она развивается в связи с недостаточностью объяснительных возможностей этих теоретических поворотов для описания культурных изменений, которые, в свою очередь, отражаются в относительно постоянной практике празднования, которая, тем самым, попадает в сферу нашего интереса. В статье описываются способы конструирования праздника и ощущения в праздника в контексте проблематики (пост)современности на примере исследования жизненного мира активно празднующих горожан. Понимание праздника в мире меняющихся и отмирающих культурных практик постепенно приходит к основанному на личном и чувственном, порой даже не успевая за переопределением некоторых традиционных аспектов празднования. Дуализм концепта праздника выливается в проблематичное и неустойчивое его место в жизненном мире жителя большого города, а также в перспективу описания современных культурных практик в терминах «общества переживаний» Г. Шульце . The aim of the presented research was the to study the everyday methods used for holidays’ construction and reproduction. The urgency of this case is closely connected to the problem of modern practices’ inconsistency, consumption society. It arouses from the hypothesis that the above-said theoretical assumptions probably cannot explain contemporary cultural change, while the holidays are constant cultural practices that can be used as the indices of change. The article describes the methods of constructing holidays and festive mood explicated in the study of actively celebrating citizens’ lifeworlds concerning the context of (post)modernity. Perception of holiday in the world of transforming and dying cultural practices consequently reaches personal and sensual basis. However, there is a lag between this perception and redefining some traditional aspects of celebrations. The holiday concept’s dualism develops into the problem of holiday’s instability as the fragment of the citizen’s lifeworld and the problem of contemporary society’s description in terms of G. Schulze’s «society of experience».
Z19|Типология постмодернистских теорий в социологии: критерии, общая композиция и описание типов. Typology of postmodern theories in sociology: criterias, general description of types and composition|Несмотря на значительную известность и распространенность понятия постмодернизма в социологии, его место и роль в социологической науке, в том числе в социологической теории, неочевидна. В статье представлена типология идентификации причастности различных теоретических кейсов к постмодернистской социологической теории, предложен набор разноаспектных критериев для идентификации теорий – задействование идейной платформы постструктурализма, критика модернизма, ускользание от идентификации и деконструкция, концептуальная тематизацияпостсовременности. При формулировке критериев были учтены как внешние референции, так и специфика содержания и стиля самопрезентации теории. С ориентацией на эти критерии произведена дифференциация теорий по «насыщенности» постмодернистскими чертами на «концентрированные» и «жидкие» группы теорий, в рамках групп выделены подтипы в зависимости от композиции актуализованных критериев. Каждый из подтипов теорий описан на примере теоретических кейсов Ж. Бодрийяра, Ж.-Ф. Лиотара, Р. Барта, З. Баумана, Э. Гидденса. Данная типология может быть использована для обоснования причастности теории к постмодернизму, раскрытия ряда акцентов теорий и систематизации теоретического поля в социологии в целом. Despite the concept of postmodernism in sociology is well-known and frequently used its place and role in sociology, including sociological theory, is not enough clarified. The article presents the version of typology of identification of theoretical cases as a part of postmodern sociological theory, offers a set of criteria for the identification of theories, among them are the involvement of the poststructuralist ideas, criticism of modernism, evading identification and deconstruction, conception of post-modern society. In formulating the criteria were taken into account external references and the specific content and style of self-presentation of theories. On the base of these criterias the differentiation of theories by «saturation» of postmodern features have been made and «concentrated» and «liquid» types of theories have been identified. These types are splited into subtypes depending on the composition of saturated criterias. Each of subtyping theories described by the example of the theoreties of J. Baudrillard, J.- F. Lyotard, R. Barthes, Z. Bauman, A. Giddens. This typology can be used to argumentation of closeness of theory to postmodernism, disclosure of a number of theories accents and theoretical systematization in the field of sociology as a whole.
Z19|Internet Challenges For Contemporary Cultural Management|This paper will emphasize contemporary approaches of online management structure for arts and cultural institutions. Turbulent economic environment calls for flexible managerial strategies, which will establish balance between traditional values and continual drive for innovations, due to more complex external business factors. WEB technology follows a large scale of customers? needs, and thus formulates a new paradigm for cultural management. In this paper Internet influences on the level of cultural management effectiveness will be researched. New presentation concepts and restructuring data bases in institutions network will be examined. Project Europeana will be presented as the example of successful data classification, creation of virtual exhibitions and digital libraries, which will be used as a framework for further quantitative and qualitative analysis of heritage archiving. Paper will also explore some of the representative examples of Internet related presentations of cultural heritage such as Google Books and Google Art project. Selected Serbian national initiatives presenting cultural heritage via Internet will be discussed and various aspects of accessibility of digital materials originating in Serbian heritage institutions will be analyzed. Business strategies modeling via Internet makes final cultural products more accessible for end users, by simple and fast information and knowledge transfer. Present and future impact of museums and library data digitalization will be investigated, with special focus on practice from the Republic of Serbia. By usage of relevant statistical data, cultural institutions in Serbia will be considered. Important culture projects will be shown, including archeological findings and the cultural route of the Roman emperors in Serbia. Development perspectives will be presented, with the proposition of solutions for their online realization. Paper will also look into new trends in higher education available trough Internet, chiefly represented by MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses), in the context of their cultural repercussions and influence they might have as an alternative medium for cultural and educational content broadcast. Challenges that employers, employees and general public face today in this area will be discussed as well as the importance and significance of OA (Open Access) business models in culture and education.
Z19|The importance of social networks? weak ties in business development|This paper aims to present the importance of weak ties in social networks for sharing information at personal level, across departments in a company, as well as between managers that seek business opportunities. Also, the paper shows that complex knowledge requires strong ties in order to be properly shared and used. Weak ties between departments in a company make information diffusion faster only if the knowledge shared is simple, otherwise if the information is complex, the communication between departments and the development of projects will encounter difficulties.The article analyses the structure and the dynamic of business social networks starting from Granovetter's theory and Burt?s social capital theory and offers practical examples of how to develop a business using the weak ties in social networks, such as the well-known Facebook platform or the professional oriented LinkedIn platform.
Z19|Dos : A Maternal Influence in Family Finance in Roman Law|In Roman Law, a contribution or a gift under the name of ?dos? was given by the wife?s family to the husband in order to cover the expenses of the woman?s future family?s household. For this reason, dos could be defined as a maternal influence in family finance in Roman Law when it is evaluated in economic sense. Dos was also called as ?dowry?. At the beginning, giving dos was customarily, but later on it turned into be legal necessity. Every single thing that is included in a property could be given as dowry. Usually slaves, farms, certain amount of money were subject to dowry. But sometimes, ornaments were also given as dowry. Income-yielding property was the most welcomed dowry for the permanent household expenses. A chose in action could be also subject to dowry. Marriage without a dos was not welcomed.Women?s paterfamilias gave some property to the husband as dos which was also called marriage portion. By passing of the dos to the husband, the husband undertook a duty of assisting his wife in all respects which means both spiritually and materially. In this way, woman?s situation in the marriage was thought to be refined and thus she had a bastion in her husbands level of living. Coming to talk about the functions of dos; we shall classify its functions in two: Some legists say that ?dos? was given by the wife?s family to the husband in order to cover the expenses of the woman?s future family?s household. Another group of legists say that dos is important for that in case of divorce, woman has got the right of taking dos with her so it would guarantee her sustentation after marriage. Therefore dos is mainly regarded as a contribution for the expenses of household during marriage but dos is also regarded as a subsistence benefit for woman in case of the breaking up of the marriage. If we consider dos as a contribution for the expenses of household, we shall say that husband has the rights of using it so it belongs to husband. But if we consider dos as a subsistence benefit for woman in case of the breaking up of the marriage, then we shall say that husbands has less rights on it and dos belonges to woman in fact.
Z19|The behaviour of repeat visitors to museums: review and empirical findings|This study presents a theoretical and operational framework for analysing repeat visit to museums. Starting from the literature on repeat visit in tourism, the specificities of these cultural attractions are made explicit through a review of theoretical and applied works. Consistently with previous contributors, the paper suggests that the analysis of actual past behaviours has to be preferred to the one of attitudes. The application of proper econometric models is also remarked in order to put into account individual profiles. Information coming from three techniques is then used in an integrated way in order to provide a more comprehensive view of the phenomenon. Evidence from an ad hoc survey suggests the necessity to give a greater attention to perceived cultural value during the visit, promoting cultural events during the week and addressed to children, and taking care of those visitors that come from far places also through an integrated tourist supply. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Z19|Weekends and Subjective Well-Being|This paper exploits the richness and large sample size of the Gallup/Healthways US daily poll to illustrate significant differences in the dynamics of two key measures of subjective well-being: emotions and life evaluations. We find that there is no day-of week effect for life evaluations, represented here by the Cantril Ladder, but significantly more happiness, enjoyment, and laughter, and significantly less anxiety, sadness, and anger on weekends (including public holidays) than on weekdays. We then find strong evidence of the importance of the social context, both at work and at home, in explaining the size and likely determinants of the weekend effects for emotions. Weekend effects are twice as large for full-time paid workers as for the rest of the population, and are much smaller for those whose work supervisor is considered a partner rather than a boss and who report trustable and open work environments. A large portion of the weekend effects is explained by differences in the amount of time spent with friends or family between weekends and weekdays (7.1 vs. 5.4 h). The extra daily social time of 1.7 h in weekends raises average happiness by about 2 %. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Z19|Simon`s Puzzle: Heuristics in the Process of Making Political Choices|In this article we analyse one of the most fascinating paradoxes of mass politics. Based on the data from the studies of neurobiologists, neurologists, social psychology, cognitive and evolution studies we answer the question specified in literature as the Simon's puzzle: How is it possible that citizens have their opinions about politics, if they know so little about it? We began our analysis from the criticism of the economic rationality approach. To do this, we referred to the Allais paradox, cognitive dissonance theory, Ellsberg paradox, the concept of bounded rationality, conjunction fallacy and prospect theory. Next, we described the evolutionary processes shaping the minds of Homo sapiens and characterised cognitive mechanisms, thanks to which people can make political choices, especially in view of the shortage of time and information. The following heuristics are referred to herein: affect, recognition, judgment and imitation.
Z19|Design of the Fuzzy Control Systems Based on Genetic Algorithm for Intelligent Robots|This paper gives the structure optimization of fuzzy control systems based on genetic algorithm in the MATLAB environment. The genetic algorithm is a powerful tool for structure optimization of the fuzzy controllers, therefore, in this paper, integration and synthesis of fuzzy logic and genetic algorithm has been proposed. The genetic algorithms are applied for fuzzy rules set, scaling factors and membership functions optimization. The fuzzy control structure initial consist of the 3 membership functions and 9 rules and after the optimization it is enough for the 4 DOF SCARA Robot control to compensate for structured and unstructured uncertainty. Fuzzy controller with the generalized bell membership functions can provide better dynamic performance of the robot then with the triangular membership functions. The proposed joint-space controller is computationally simple and had adaptability to a sudden change in the dynamics of the robot. Results of the computer simulation applied to the 4 DOF SCARA Robot show the validity of the proposed method.
Z19|Synthesis of some Mechanisms using Natural Coordinates|The aim of this article is to demonstrate the kinematical synthesis of some mechanisms applied in agricultural machineries. The applied method based on the use of natural coordinates for this reason the method is simple and efficient. The mechanical system is described by a set of geometric constraints. The design requirements are handled by a set of functional constraints. By the aid of objective function it can be obtained the values of design parameters of the mechanism. Finally two characteristically examples are presented that illustrate the application of the method.
Z19|Interplay of Cognitive Efficiency, Cognitive Ability and Motivation|The current body of research often focuses on the problem of cognitive decline through ageing. People adapt to these changes of cognitive resources by using brain reserve. An overview of results of different studies on how cognitive abilities of older adults decline highlights high variability of conclusions and sometimes contradiction but it has been shown older adults can be as good as or even better than younger participants in specific domains. Among others, personal meaningfulness of a situation and closeness to the researcher can be strong factors when assessing cognitive abilities and the aim of this paper was to research how these effect cognitive efficiency. In the pilot study we eliminated the factor of laboratory setting and checked how cognitive efficiency and abilities change in relation to motivation. Forty-eight participants, divided into two age groups, were asked to pass a proverb interpretation test. The results showed that participant's subjective view on the researcher, perceived closeness, correlated with the adequacy in proverb interpretation. Both groups scored higher on adequacy of interpretation when they perceived to be close to the researcher. The younger adults outperformed the older but those in the older adults' group, who felt to be close to the researcher scored as well as younger adults who didn't perceived to be close to the researcher. This motivational reserve might play a role in assessing cognitive abilities and pathologies that affect the outcome of neuropsychological tests.
Z19|Modulation of Motoric Processes on the Basis of Taijiquan Movement Prinicples|"Taijiquan (TJQ) is a Chinese martial art, in the West known primarily as a stand-alone version of moving meditation, which was developed mainly on the experience of martial art. The main goal of TJQ as a martial art is to control the opponent's balance with as little force as possible and can be described with the well-known metaphor that ""4 ounce can defeat 1000 ounce."" This metaphor usually stands for a special effect in TJQ, called fajing. To understand the basic movement principles of TJQ we have to analyse the experience itself. On the basis of first- person analysis, we designed a number of pilot and one extensive study. In this article we will present an intervention method that uses TJQ movement principles to modulate motoric (MM) process and produces the fajing effect - which usually takes years of proper exercise - in just 15 to 20 minutes. A pilot study was designed to measure the influence of MM method on our movement. The participants had to use each arm to work on a different task. They used one arm to move the computer mouse and the cursor on the computer screen trying to catch the marker on the screen as fast and as accurately as possible. The other arm was interfered with constant steady movement forward-backward in the lateral direction. We measured the accuracy and speed of movement before and after the intervention. It turned out that the participants were more accurate in performing their task after the MM intervention than before it. Before the intervention the accuracy was 0,443 ± 0,058 and after the intervention it improved to 0,498 ± 0,053, p"
Z19|Looking into Self-Exploration Attitudes and Ways of Constructing Experience|Empirical phenomenology - study of lived subjective experience is the latest addition to the interdisciplinary efforts aiming at understanding the human mind. We present the research, which was originally aimed at investigating the experiences of Holotropic Breathwork, however, results of the analysis convinced us to move the focus of our interest to differences between individual ways of constructing experience. We have identified three types of personal epistemologies (i.e. ways of constructing the subjective experience) and found the correlation with individual attitudes towards self-exploration. The paper aims at providing a novel model with regard to how experience is constructed and expands the understanding of the limitations of the phenomenological interview techniques.
Z19|Développement de l’Industrie Créative et Réduction du Chômage des Jeunes au Cameroun : une Approche par la Matrice de Comptabilité Sociale<BR>[Creative Industry Development and reduction of Youth Unemployment in Cameroon: A Social Accounting Matrix Approach]|The aim of this article is to examine and measure the importance of the development of the creative industry in the fight against youth unemployment in Cameroon. To achieve this assignment we conducted a quantitative and qualitative analysis of youth labor market and an analysis of the social accounting matrix of Cameroon that we constructed supplemented by a small survey. This analysis allowed us to highlight the fact that youth are most affected by unemployment and to present policy recommendations for the development of the creative industry of Cameroon which, with its multidimensional aspect, could contribute more to absorb much of youth unemployment than now.
Z19|Na dobre czy na zle? Wspolny kryzys a dobro wspolne/For Better or Worse? The Common Crisis and Common Good|Crisis, sometimes associated with historically distant times or centrally planned economies, has turned out to be one of the main contemporary issues. Hence different systems like socialism and capitalism become similar in their inability to reply to expectations for a safe, peaceful and abundant life. It means that economic problems are more complex in their nature. Thorough analysis of the roots of different crises should therefore reach deeper than just economic explanations. This is the point where ethical and cultural explanations may be useful because they strive to explore the socio-cultural fabric at its foundations in the hierarchy of values and vision of human beings and society. When it comes to contemporary crisis the problem is twofold: firstly, there is the threat that the crisis will be treated inadequately and not realistically in consequence. Secondly, the roots of the crisis may not be diagnosed properly, which may lead to false ‘treatment’. This article is an attempt to highlight the above issues and analyse them in the context of the common good approach, which seems to offer valuable potential to understand the difficulties properly and offer a reasonable plan for recovery.
Z19|Metaphors Of The Crisis - A Reflection Of The Global Financial Situation|This article focuses upon the conceptualisation of the metaphors of the crisis highlighting the variety of both conventional and creative metaphors following their occurrence in the economic articles published in the English weekly journal The Economist over a period of five years (2007-2011) thus covering the American recession from August 2007 to June 2009 and the Euro-zone crisis starting in late 2009. Our intention is to prove that metaphors of the crisis have the power to reflect and influence the global financial situation. In our analysis we shall employ the instruments of cognitive linguistics portraying the targetdomain of the crisis in terms of diverse source-domains be they recurrent such as in the case of medical, military, liquidity or natural disasters metaphors or unexpected as it happens in the so-called miscellaneous category of metaphors of the crisis. Resorting to a qualitative research method this article is meant to offer a bird’s-eye-view upon the problem of the metaphors of the crisis by identifying the most important sourcedomains with the observation that cultural specificity and the speakers’ intentions leave room for further metaphorical elaborations. Last but not least, we aim at paving the way for future comparative studies in the field of cognitive linguistics with the purpose of paralleling English and Romanian linguistic corpora to envisage the similarities and differences between the two.
Z19|O vybraných otázkach definície kultúrnej diplomacie|Kultúrna diplomacia, ktorá je súčasťou verejnej diplomacie štátov a podieľa sa na tvorbe mäkkej moci štátov, je účinným moderným zahraničnopolitickým nástrojom. Zatiaľ jej však bola zo strany diplomatickej praxe aj ako vednej disciplíne venovaná slabšia pozornosť. Článok analyzuje kultúrnu diplomaciu z pohľadu anglo-amerického a západo-európskeho vedeckého diškurzu s cieľom zadefinovať jeho západné vnímanie, a to v ďalšom výskume dať do kontrastu s vnímaním krajín vyšehradskej skupiny. Prvá časť je venovaná historickému vývoju kultúrnej diplomacie v štátoch západného okruhu. Druhá časť formuluje jej úzku definíciu západných autorov.
Z19|Arabské štáty z pohľadu teórií medzinárodných vzťahov|Príspevok sa snaží načrtnúť hlavné smery výskumu arabských krajín. V prvom rade sa zameriava na vymedzenie arabských krajín v rámci širšie a užšie definovaného regiónu Blízkeho východu a následne vymenúva jednotlivé prístupy teórií medzinárodných vzťahov, ktoré skúmajú arabské krajiny. Arabské krajiny sa v teóriách medzinárodných vzťahov vyskytujú skôr sporadicky. Napriek tomu sa dá spomedzi teoretických diel vyabstrahovať diela, ktoré možno zaradiť do štyroch hlavných prístupov teórií medzinárodných vzťahov. Jedná sa o realizmus a neorealizmus, konštruktivizmus a anglickú školu, zahraničnopolitickú analýzu a historickú sociológiu. Zámerom príspevku je ponúknuť čo najucelenejší prehľad smerov výskumu arabských krajín v rámci teórií medzinárodných vzťahov.
Z19|Using choice experiments to value a world cultural heritage site: Reflections on the experimental design|In the context of public amenities, whose benefits of preservation are not totally reflected by the market, the valuation of cultural heritage has given primacy to the contingent valuation method, with very few attempts being made to valuation via the discrete choice experiments technique (DCE). In the present paper, from among the various phases of the DCE conception, particular emphasis is given to the way in which the attributes levels are combined into alternatives and how they are allocated into choice sets (experimental design step). In order to configure hypothetical scenarios relating to the conservation of a World Heritage cultural landscape, this paper applies both the experimental design strategies identified in the literature review as commonly applied in DCE to value cultural items, as well as D-optimal processes, which proved to be advantageous both in terms of statistical efficiency and in the information required (number of choice sets).
Z19|The agenda setting theory in the written Romanian media|The paper shows the relation between mass media and the public and focuses on the agenda setting theory and its effects at a social level. As a main purpose agenda setting states that mass media tries to create interest to the public regarding some important issues. The theory starts with two main hypotesis: 1 – mass media does not reflect the reality; it filters and shapes it; and 2 – the media focuses only on some particular subjects; in this way the public is made to believe that these specific subjects are most important than others. (Agenda Setting Theory, 2012). For the empirical part of our research, we analyzed a number of five national newspapers and three local ones, for a period of one week. We are trying to find out the way the media agenda is build and present for the public, both at a local level as well at a national one.
Z19|Intercultural Dialogue – A Must For A Sustainable Harmony Among Religion Followers|"The impact of the dialogue between cultures can meet national and ""internal"" dimensions and features or even regional and ""external” ones. In order to grasp all the dimensions of this paradigm shift, it is important to try understanding the concepts of and interactions between culture, conflict and dialogue as an array, where conflict has to be always isolated between the other two concepts.The main aim of the paper is to underline the idea that just having a fair dialogue between cultures and religions followers can be established a sustainable harmony among them. Culture is closely connected to a community environment. Indeed, culture is essentially collective and it affects and influences human behavior. Culture helps people to build and preserve their own identity. Identity stems from the consciousness of difference. Sometimes, this identity sharpens after a confrontation. It strengthens the self‐esteem of the individual, and it makes it easier for the individual to accept compromises in deals with other parties without being afraid of “losing face” or “losing values” or “misunderstanding values”."
Z19|Colombia: ¿Otros cien años de Soledad?|Resumen: La mayoría de los reportes de los problemas de Colombia, que hacen hincapié en las drogas, mafias, grupos guerrilleros de izquierda y grupos paramilitares “de derecha” son engañosos ya que se centran en los síntomas, no las causas. Sostengo que estas son el resultado de la forma en que Colombia es gobernada. Es decir, con una forma de gobierno indirecto, donde las partes funcionales y disfuncionales del país entran en una relación simbiótica. Proporciono ejemplos de esta relación en el trabajo y discuto varios mecanismos que le ayudan a persistir aunque sea terriblemente costoso para los colombianos colectivamente.
Z19|El derecho a la información en Colombia: una aproximación al estado de la información desde el derecho y los archivos|El derecho a la información (DI) ha sido un tema relevante en diferentes áreas del conocimiento. Los estudios permiten abordarlo desde diferentes perspectivas; sin embargo, su instalación no ha tenido el impacto deseado en varios sectores de la comunidad colombiana. Este artículo da cuenta del estado de instalación del DI en Colombia, su relación con la archivística y el derecho, así como su influencia en diferentes sectores de la sociedad, específicamente en la producción académica nacional. La metodología se aborda desde la investigación documental, procurando una comprensión de los diferentes elementos que entretejen el DI. Para esto, mediante un trabajo exploratorio, se revisaron por palabras clave diferentes fuentes que tuvieran relación con 1) la investigación (grupos de investigación colombianos que trabajan en el tema), 2) la circulación (motor de búsqueda Google) y 3) la socialización (periódico local de circulación nacional). La revisión sugiere que en Colombia la articulación DI-derecho-archivística ha sido débil y que el país no cuenta con las competencias científicas necesarias para el desarrollo conceptual y técnico del DI como lo consagra la ley.
Z19|Do the Best Scholars and Economists Attract the Highest Speaking Fees?|External prominence (measured by the number of pages indexed on search engines or TED talk invitations) can be capitalized on the speakers' market while research performance (measured by publication and citation indicators) cannot. There is thus a clear distinction between the capitalization of external and internal prominence. Success through authorship of books is also positively correlated with speaking fees, however once we control for external prominence the statistical significance disappears. We find that academics profit from having been awarded a major book prize.
