Z20|Affordability, Financial Innovation and the Start of the Housing Boom|At their peak in 2005, roughly 60 percent of all purchase mortgage loans originated in the United States contained at least one non-traditional feature. These features, which allowed borrowers easier access to credit through teaser interest rates, interest-only or negative amortization periods, and extended payment terms, have been the subject of much regulatory and popular criticism. In this paper, we construct a novel county-level dataset to analyze the relationship between rising house prices and non-traditional features of mortgage contracts. We apply a break-point methodology and find that in housing markets with breaks in the mid-2000s, a strong rise in the use of non-traditional mortgages preceded the start of the housing boom. Furthermore, their rise was coupled with declining denial rates and a shift from FHA to subprime mortgages. Our findings support the view that a change in mortgage contract availability and a shift toward subprime borrowers helped to fuel the rise of house prices during the last decade.
Z20|Quantifying the intangible impact of the Olympics using subjective well-being data|Hosting the Olympic Games costs billions of taxpayer dollars. Following a quasi- experimental setting, this paper assesses the intangible impact of the London 2012 Olympics, using a novel panel of 26,000 residents in London, Paris, and Berlin during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013. We show that hosting the Olympics increases subjective well-being of the host city's residents during the event, particularly around the times of the opening and closing ceremonies. However, we do not _nd much evi- dence for legacy e_ects. Estimating residents' implicit willingness-to-pay for the event, we do not _nd that it was worth it for London alone, but a modest wellbeing impact on the rest of the country would make hosting worth the costs.
Z20|Estimated Costs of Injuries in College and High School Female Sports|Injury rates in thirteen U.S. women’s college sports and four U.S. girls’ high school sports are examined in this paper. The sports are categorized as high injury (H) or low injury (L) and differences in injury rates between the two are examined. Estimates are presented of the injury savings that would result if the H sports were changed to have injury rates similar to those in the L sports. The estimated college savings are 13,610 fewer injuries per year and 2,020 fewer healthy years lost-to-injury per year. The estimated high school savings are 143,900 fewer injuries per year and 24,300 fewer healthy years lost-to-injury per year. For concussions the savings are 2,750 per year for college and 49,390 per year for high school. The estimated dollar value (in 2015 dollars) of the total injury savings is between $122 million and $505 million per year for college and between $1.3 billion and $4.9 billion per year for high school.
Z20|Individual labor market effects of local public expenditures on sports|By merging administrative data on public finances of all municipalities in Germany with individual data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we explore whether local public expenditures on sports facilities influences individual labor market outcomes. Our identification strategy follows a selection-on-observables approach and exploits the panel structure of the data covering 12 years between 2001 and 2012. The results of our matching estimations suggest that both women and men living in municipalities with high expenditure levels benefit, exhibiting approximately 7 percent of additional household net income on average. However, this income effect is fully captured by earning gains for men rather than women living in the household. Additional analysis suggests, that these gender differences, which can also be observed in terms of working time, hourly wage and employment status, appear plausible since women in the age cohort under consideration are less likely than men to engage in sports in general and in any of the publicly funded sports facilities in particular. Moreover, improved well-being and health are possible mechanisms that determine how the positive labor market effects for men may unfold.
Z20|Indoor Air Quality and Cognitive Performance|This paper studies the causal impact of indoor air quality on the cognitive performance of individuals using data from official chess tournaments. We use a chess engine to evaluate the quality of moves made by individual players and merge this information with measures of air quality inside the tournament venue. The results show that poor indoor air quality hampers cognitive performance significantly. We find that an increase in the indoor concentration of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) by 10 μg/m3 increases a player's probability of making an erroneous move by 26.3%. The impact increases in both magnitude and statistical significance with rising time pressure. The effect of the indoor concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) is smaller and only matters during phases of the game when decisions are taken under high time stress. Exploiting temporal as well as spatial variation in outdoor pollution, we provide evidence suggesting a short-term and transitory effect of fine particulate matter on cognition.
Z20|A family of rules to share the revenues from broadcasting sport events|We consider the problem of sharing the revenues from broadcasting sport league events, introduced by Bergantiños and Moreno-Ternero (2019). We characterize a family of rules compromising between two focal and somewhat polar rules: the equal-split rule and concede-and-divide. The characterization only makes use of three basic axioms: equal treatment of equals, additivity and maximum aspirations. We also show further interesting features of the family: (i) if we allow teams to vote for any rule within the family, then a majority voting equilibrium exists; (ii) the rules within the family yield outcomes that are fully ranked according to the Lorenz dominance criterion; (iii) the family provides rationale for existing schemes in real-life situations.
Z20|Do local public expenditures on sports facilities affect sports participation in Germany?|This paper analyzes the effect of local public expenditures on sports facilities on sports participation in Germany. To this end, we construct a new database containing public expenditures at the municipality level and link this information with individual level data. We form locally weighted averages of expenditures based on geographic distances since people also benefit from expenditures of neighboring municipalities. We analyze how effects of sports facility expenditures change with different expenditures levels (“dose-response relationship”) and find no effect of local public expenditures on sports facilities on the probability to practice sports. These findings are robust across different age groups and municipality sizes.
Z20|Individual Labor Market Effects of Local Public Expenditures on Sports|By merging administrative data on public finances of all municipalities in Germany with individual data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we explore whether local public expenditures on sports facilities influences individual labor market outcomes. Our identification strategy follows a selection-on-observables approach and exploits the panel structure of the data covering 12 years between 2001 and 2012. The results of our matching estimations suggest that both women and men living in municipalities with high expenditure levels benefit, exhibiting approximately 7 percent of additional household net income on average. However, this income effect is fully captured by earning gains for men rather than women living in the household. Additional analysis suggests, that these gender differences, which can also be observed in terms of working time, hourly wage and employment status, appear plausible since women in the age cohort under consideration are less likely than men to engage in sports in general and in any of the publicly funded sports facilities in particular. Moreover, improved well-being and health are possible mechanisms that determine how the positive labor market effects for men may unfold.
Z20|Let’s meet as usual: Do games on non-frequent days differ? Evidence from top European soccer leagues|Balancing the allocation of games in sports competitions is an important organizational task that can have serious financial consequences. In this paper, we examine data from 9,930 soccer games played in the top German, Spanish, French, and English soccer leagues between 2007/2008 and 2016/2017. Using a machine learning technique for variable selection and applying a semi-parametric analysis of radius matching on the propensity score, we find that all four leagues have a lower attendance as the share of stadium capacity in games that take place on non-frequently played days compared to the frequently played days. In addition, we find that in all leagues except for the English Premier League, there is a significantly lower home advantage for the underdog teams on non-frequent days. Our findings suggest that the current schedule favors underdog teams with fewer home games on non-frequent days. Therefore, to increase the fairness of the competitions, it is necessary to adjust the allocation of the home games on non-frequent days in a way that eliminates any advantage driven by the schedule. These findings have implications for the stakeholders of the leagues, as well as for coaches and players.
Z20|Measuring competitive balance in Formula One Racing|The Formula One Championship (F1) is one of the biggest sports businesses in the world. But, however, it seems to astonish that only very few scholarly articles analyze the F1 business. The aim of this study is to contribute to closing two gaps in the existing literature: it contributes (1) to the (sports) economic analysis of the F1 business and (2) to the literature on competitive balance in non-team sports. Like competitive balance in team sport leagues, also for F1 racing three dimensions can be distinguished: (a) race-specific competitive balance, (b) within-season competitive balance, and (c) between-season competitive balance. In addition to classical tools and data, some new and F1 specific indicators, like average lead changes or leading distance, are employed. Also, pitfalls induced especially by the used data source or calculation method are highlighted.
Z20|How does online streaming affect antitrust remedies to centralized marketing? The case of European football broadcasting rights|The collective sale of football broadcasting rights constitutes a cartel, which, in the European Union, is only allowed if it complies with a number of conditions and obligations, inter alia, partial unbundling and the no-single-buyer rule. These regulations were defined with traditional TV-markets in mind. However, the landscape of audiovisual broadcasting is quickly changing with online streaming services gaining popularity and relevance. This also alters the effects of the conditions and obligations for the centralized marketing arrangements. Partial unbundling may lead to increasing instead of decreasing prices for consumers. Moreover, the combination of partial unbundling and the no-single-buyer rule forces consumers into multiple subscriptions to several streaming services, which increases transaction costs. Consequently, competition authorities need to rethink the conditions and obligations they impose on centralized marketing arrangements in football. We recommend restricting the exclusivity of (live-)broadcasting rights and mandate third-party access to program guide information to redesign the remedies.
Z20| The advantage of scoring just before the halftime break – pure myth? Quasi-experimental evidence from European football| We examine whether the moment just before the halftime break is a particularly good time to score a goal. Using detailed data from the top five European football leagues between the 2013/14 and 2017/18 seasons, we exploit the quasi-random occurrence of goals scored just before and just after the halftime break. In the former situation, the game is exogenously inter-rupted by a break immediately after the goal, whereas in the latter situation, the game continues without interruption. We show that in the case of a goal being scored just before halftime, the scoring team benefits more from the halftime break than the conceding team.
Z20|The impact of NCAA men’s basketball probations on the quantity and quality of student applications and enrollment| Collegiate sports programmes have been characterized as the front porch of a university, serving to publicize the institution and draw students to the door. Previous research in this area has indicated a positive correlation between athletic success and the quantity and quality of students attending the university. Conversely, we seek to analyse if athletic malfeasance, as measured by NCAA probations of men’s basketball programmes, negatively affects either the quantity or quality of students at a university. Our findings suggest that while basketball probations do not change the overall quantity of applications nor enrolment at a university, there is a significant adverse impact on the quality of freshman enrolling at the university as measured by Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. Our finding suggests that athletics do indeed serve as a front porch to a university and that athletic sanctions in men’s basketball have a detrimental effect on the average quality of students attending a university.
Z20|Universities Behaving Badly: The Impact of Athletic Malfeasance on Student Applications and Enrollment|Collegiate sports programs are often characterized as the front porch of a university, serving to publicize the institution and draw students to the door. We analyze if athletic malfeasance, as measured by NCAA postseason tournament bans of men’s basketball, negatively affects either the quantity or quality of student applications or enrollment. Our findings suggest that athletic malfeasances that result in postseason tournament bans lowers both the quantity and quality of students enrolling at the infracting university. Our results demonstrate that impropriety by an athletics program serves as signal to prospective students regarding the overall quality of the university. Key Words: Education, NCAA, Athletic Malfeasance
Z20|The Economic Impact of Olympic Games: Effects of Host Country Announcements on Stock Market Returns|Roughly seven years before an Olympic games, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) accepts bids from countries to host an Olympics. Subsequently, the IOC determines and announces to the world who has won and lost the right to host. Contrary to prior evidence, we find the announcements do not affect the bidding countriesï¿½ stock markets. We complement prior studies by using additional years of announcements, by investigating whether there are effects prior to the announcement, and by testing for an effect both parametrically and non-parametrically.
Z20|The distribution of soccer leagues scores that generates the minimum of competitive balance: Truncated-Cascade Distribution|Competitive balance can be measured using standardized indexes, such as the Herfindahl-Hirschman index (HHI). The standardized HHI calculus is based on knowing the maximum value of HHI. This value corresponds to the minimum value of the competitive balance. Measuring competitive balance is affected by the scoring system used. There are competitions that have scoring systems that do not award twice as many points for winning as they award for ties. In this case, the scores distribution representative of the minimum competitive balance is unstable because the total points at the end of the championship can vary. This issue has been addressed by reconstructing the results obtained in leagues. Nevertheless, this solution generates cardinal and ordinal negative effects, that we verify for the major European soccer leagues over twenty seasons. The aim of this article is to redefine the perfectly unbalanced distribution in order to construct a new one that generates the maximum level of concentration: we call this truncated-cascade distribution. Thus, we show that the instability problem does not involve recalculating the scoring based on the results. The minimum value of competitive balance is generated by a truncated-cascade distribution of results at a level that can be previously calculated. Thus, we calculate the cut-off point of the truncated-cascade distribution using a 5-grade polynomial equation obtained by recurrent calculation. Besides, we provide the cut-off points and maximum HHI values for leagues with different number of teams.
Z20|Fair Competition Design|We study the impact of two basic principles of fairness on the structure of competition systems and perform our analysis by focus-ing on sports competitions. The first principle states that equally strong players should have the same chances of being final winner, while the second principle requires that the competition system should not favor weaker players. We apply these requirements to a class of competitions which includes, but is not limited to, the sport tournament systems that are most commonly used in practice, such as round-robin tournaments and di fferent kinds of knockout competitions, and we characterize the structures satisfying these requirements. In our results, a new competition structure that we call an antler is found to play a referential role. Finally, we show that the class of fair competition systems becomes rather small when both fairness principles are jointly applied.
Z20|Building Nations Through Shared Experiences: Evidence from African Football|We examine whether shared collective experiences can help build a national identity, by looking at the impact of national football teams’ victories in sub- Saharan Africa. Combining individual survey data with information on official matches played between 2000 and 2015, we find that individuals interviewed in the days after a victory of their country’s national team are less likely to identify with their ethnic group than with the country as a whole and more likely to trust people of other ethnicities than those interviewed just before. The effect is sizable and robust and is not explained by generic euphoria or optimism. Crucially, we find that national victories not only affect attitudes but also reduce violence: using plausibly exogenous variation from close qualifications to the African Cup of Nations, we find that countries that (barely) qualified experience significantly less conflict in the following six months than countries that (barely) did not. Our findings indicate that, even when divisions are deeply rooted, shared experiences can work as an effective nation-building tool, bridge cleavages, and have a tangible effect on violence.
Z20|Is Football a Matter of Life and Death – Or is it more Important than that?|Football is the national sport of most of the planet. This paper examines how happy the outcomes of football matches make us. We calibrate these results relative to other activities and estimate the dynamic effects these exogenous events have on our utility over time. We find that football – on average – makes us unhappier – so why would we go through the pain of following a football team. This behavioural choice paradox occupies much of the paper so we investigate why we go on following our teams, even though matches make us more unhappy on average. We examine how much our story changes if we examine the dynamic effects of football matches over time in different hours before and after the game and the extent to which our happiness is influenced by what we would rationally expect the result to be beforehand – as based on the betting odds.
Z20|Sharing the revenues from broadcasting sport events|We study the problem of sharing the revenue from broadcasting sport events, among participating players. We provide direct, axiomatic and game-theoretical foundations for two focal rules: the equal-split rule and concede-and-divide. The former allocates the revenues generated from broadcasting each game equally among the participating players in the game. The latter concedes players in each game the revenues generated by their respective fans and divides equally the residual. We also provide an application studying the case of sharing the revenue from broadcasting games in La Liga, the Spanish Football League. We show that hybrid schemes, combining our rules with lower bounds and performance measures, yield close outcomes to the current allocation being implemented by the Spanish National Professional Football League Association.
Z20|Wage Determination In A Regulated Labor Market: Empirical Evidence From Major League Soccer|The North American top tier Major League Soccer presents a unique research setting to study a regulated labor market. Contrary to the situation in Europe, where player salaries remain private and confidential (the only exception here is “Serie A” in Italy), the player unions regu-larly publish this kind of information for each of the US Major Leagues. In this paper we use an unbalanced panel with detailed player-season-information from the seasons 2006 to 2016 to estimate a multi-stage salary model for MLS players. We differentiate in the analysis be-tween regular and designated players (aka DP, a status unknown in Europe) due to their heter-ogenic profiles. For regular players we find that the impact of age on salaries follows an in-verted u-shape with a very late turning point at 33.6 years. In addition, we find a statistically significant positive of last season’s performance and career performance. Experience abroad yields a significantly higher salary as does tenure with the current team (controlling for team-specific fixed effects). Perhaps surprisingly, career length in MLS is negatively associated with salary. Also, the results suggest that local player suffer a pay discrimination compared to similar players from Western Europe, Central and South America. Thus, we confirm most of the findings that have been reported in previous research using data from European football leagues (e.g. Lucifora & Simmons, 2003; Frick, 2007; Bryson et al., 2014). This finding alone is not straightforward considering the various regulations that help the leagues to keep espe-cially salary budgets in check. The effectiveness of salary regulations, e.g. put in place via Collective Bargaining Agreements, is shown for two instances, as is the impact of a regulatory change. In contrast, the key driver of the unregulated DP salaries are club-specific fixed effects, ex-plaining already 58 percent of the observable variation in player salaries. Next important driv-ers are career games played and the region of origin. Local superstar players earn a surprising premium over players from Western Europe, South America and the Carribean’s. Neither for regular nor for designated players’ positions are rewarded significantly different. This is a big difference compared to European leagues where Forwards are usually paid better.
Z20|How outcome uncertainty, loss aversion and team quality affect stadium attendance in Dutch professional football|We investigate stadium attendance in the highest level of Dutch professional football for the seasons 2000/01 – 2015/16 focusing on outcome uncertainty, loss aversion and team quality. We find that for individual football matches, attendance is related to reference-dependent preferences with loss aversion dominating the preference for uncertain outcomes. Furthermore, team quality is an important determinant of stadium attendance. Towards the end of the season, outcome uncertainty regarding the final ranking becomes important. For this seasonal uncertainty, we find a positive and stable, but rather small impact of the introduction of a unique and large end-of-season play-off scheme for the qualification for European football.
Z20|Incentives, Performance and Choking in Darts|This paper examines the effect of incentives on the performance of darts players. We analyze four data sets comprising a total of 123,402 darts matches of professional, amateur, and youth players. The game of darts offers an attractive natural research setting, because performance can be observed at the individual level and without the obscuring effects of risk considerations and the behavior of others. We find that amateur and youth players perform better under moderately higher incentives, but choke when the incentives are really high. Professional players similarly display better performance under higher incentives, but appear less susceptible of choking. These results speak to a growing literature on the limits of increasing incentives as a recipe for better performance.
Z20|Contests with Ex-Ante Target Setting|I study contests in which each player is ranked by a scoring rule based on both her performance and how close this performance is to a private target, set before the contest. Each player’s decision problem is to choose her target when performance is subject to a random component. I analyse the incentive properties of target setting, derive conditions on the primitives such that equilibria exist and characterise the players’ behaviour. I show that target setting generates outcome uncertainty under a large class of conditions. In particular, neither private abilities nor perfectly correlated states are necessary. Target setting, therefore, has important implications in contest design as outcome uncertainty is a salient determinant of consumers’ demand for contests. JEL classification numbers: C70 ; D81 ; D82 ; Z20
Z20|Effects of the three-point rule in German amateur football|Possible effects of the introduction of the three-point rule in 1995 are tested by using data from amateur football leagues in Germany, concretely in Westphalia. There are as expected signifi-cantly less draws and more goals since the rule change. For even amateurs follow incentives.
Z20|The Optimal Design of Round-Robin Tournaments with Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.
Z20|Are Sequential Round-Robin Tournaments Discriminatory?|I examine sequential round-robin tournaments with three and four symmetric players. Each player is matched once with each other player. If the matches are organized as Tullock contests (all-pay auctions), the tournament will be almost fair (highly discriminatory): subject to the position of their matches in the sequence of the tournament, the differences in players’ ex-ante winning probabilities and expected payoffs will be small (large). The differing results originate from the higher discriminating power of the all-pay auction. Moreover, the resulting discouragement effect in tournaments with all-pay auctions implies lower aggregate effort than in tournaments with suitable Tullock contests. The fairness of round-robin tournaments may be improved by the use of an endogenous sequence of matches or the requirement that players fix their effort ex-ante.
Z20|Sequential Round-Robin Tournaments with Multiple Prizes|We examine the fairness and intensity of sequential round-robin tournaments with multiple prizes. With three symmetric players and two prizes, the tournament is completely fair if and only if the second prize is valued half of the first prize, regardless of whether matches are organized as Tullock contests or as allpay auctions. For second prizes different from half of the first prize, three-player tournaments with matches organized as Tullock contests are usually fairer than tournaments with matches organized as all-pay auctions. However, unless the second prize is very small, they are less intense in the sense that players exert less ex-ante expected aggregate effort per unit of prize money. Moreover, we specify how the relative size of the second prize influences the extent and the direction of discrimination as well as the intensity of three-player tournaments. Finally, we show that there is no prize structure for which sequential round-robin tournaments with four symmetric players are completely fair in general.
Z20|Decomposing competitive balance in the major European football leagues : a Rawlsian approach|The study of competitive balance in sports has received considerable attention in the academic literature, mainly as a consequence of the effect that it could have on the interest of society in the competitions analyzed. However, most of the studies have focused on the total competitive balance, without taking into account the methodological importance of decomposing it. This paper analyzes competitive balance in the Spanish, English, Italian and German football leagues between 1975 and 2016, and the internal dynamics behind the changes experienced. Our results show a considerable decrease in the total competitive balance in recent decades, although the dynamics behind the increases in inequality are different in the four leagues. Focusing on Rawlsian principles, our analysis shows that the Spanish competition is the only league in which the promoted teams do not have a higher probability of being relegated, and therefore, the competition in which incumbent teams suffer lower entry barriers and have higher chances of survival.
Z20|Estimated Costs of Contact in Men's Collegiate Sports|Injury rates in twelve U.S. men’s collegiate sports are examined in this paper. The twelve sports ranked by overall injury rate are wrestling, football, ice hockey, soccer, basketball, lacrosse, tennis, baseball, indoor track, cross country, outdoor track, and swimming. The first six sports will be called “contact” sports, and the next five will be called “non-contact.” Swimming is treated separately because it has many fewer injuries. Injury rates in the contact sports are considerably higher than they are in the non-contact sports and they are on average more severe. Estimates are presented of the injury savings that would result if the contact sports were changed to have injury rates similar to the rates in the non-contact sports. The estimated savings are 49,600 fewer injuries per year and 5,990 fewer injury years per year. The estimated dollar value of these savings is between about 0.5 and 1.5 billion per year. About half of this is from football. Section 7 speculates on how the contact sports might be changed to have their injury rates be similar to those in the non-contact sports.
Z20|Estimated Costs of Contact in College and High School Male Sports|Injury rates in twelve U.S. men’s college sports and five U.S. boys’ high school sports are examined in this paper. The sports are categorized as “contact” or “non-contact,” and differences in injury rates between the two are examined. Injury rates in the contact sports are considerably higher than those in the non-contact sports and they are on average more severe. Estimates are presented of the injury savings that would result if the contact sports were changed to have injury rates similar to those in the non-contact sports. The estimated college savings are 49,600 fewer injuries per year and 6,000 fewer years lost-to-injury per year. The estimated high school savings are 601,900 fewer injuries per year and 96,000 fewer years lost-to-injury per year. For concussions the savings are 6,900 per year for college and 161,400 per year for high school. The estimated dollar value (in 2015 dollars) of the total injury savings is between $446 million and $1.5 billion per year for college and between $5.4 billion and $19.2 billion per year for high school. Section 11 speculates on how the contact sports might be changed to have their injury rates be similar to those in the non-contact sports.
Z20|Goal attainability and performance: Evidence from Boston marathon qualifying standards|In this paper we test if performance improves once goals become more attainable. Goal-setting literature suggests that workers respond to challenging but achievable goals with increased performance. Empirical evidence supports the notion of goals increasing performance; however the evidence on how attainability of goals affects performance is mixed. This paper tests whether efforts increase, improving performance as the goals become more attainable. We are employing a unique set of publicly available marathon data from 1970 to 2015 to directly analyze the effect of goal attainability on performance. With the probable goal of qualifying for the Boston Marathon, we test if runners increase their effort, and consequently improve their performance if they enter a new age group and as a result have a more attainable goal. We find that runners who enter a new age group perform better than the runners whose qualifying time did not change. This effect is seen with runners in younger age groups, but not found in the results of runners in more advanced years.
Z20|The Relationship between Perceived Stress, Athletic Burnout and Leisure Participation amongst Badminton Players|"Objective – This study examines the relationship between perceived stress, athletic burnout and leisure amongst badminton players. Methodology/Technique – The research subjects were all first national ranking tournament badminton players in 2012. The study uses convenience sampling to conduct a questionnaire survey. 350 questionnaires were distributed, with 288 valid questionnaires being returned (male 195, female 93). The rate of effectiveness was 82%. All of the data collected was analyzed using descriptive statistic and hierarchical regression analysis. Findings – The results show those badminton players between the ages of 19 and 21 experience higher cognitive stress. Further, badminton players who are involved in competitions at a higher level and whom have been training for a longer period of time, experience a higher athletic burnout. This means that badminton players who have higher perceived pressure will experience higher levels of burnout. Novelty – The study highlights that badminton players who participate in leisure-based activities are able to effectively adjust their perception of pressure to a ""reduced sense of accomplishment"" which has an effect on athletic burnout. Additionally, the study results give rise to variety of proposed solutions or suggestions for dealing with burnout or stress."
Z20|The Educated Underdog Becomes the Ultimate Superstar|We fi…nd an inverted relation between a player'’s birthday and the likelihood of receiving the Ballon d'’Or (awarded to the best football player in the world). We develop a multi-period skill formation model with selection into elite education. We show that those born late (underdogs) need to work harder to be selected for elite educational programs. However, those born too late will not make the cut-off. Those born late –– but not too late –– will thus end up with the highest skill levels as adults (educated underdogs). We use detailed data on the performance of elite Swedish football players to illustrate our model. These data provide strong support for the predictions of the model.
Z20|Exercise Improves Academic Performance|We report the results of a randomized controlled trial testing whether incentivizing physical exercise improves the academic performance of college students. As expected, the intervention increases physical activity. The main result is that it generates a strong and significant improvement in academic performance, particularly for students who struggled at the baseline in terms of lifestyle habits. We also provide evidence on the underlying mechanisms: Students who were incentivized to exercise have a healthier life style and improved self-control. Overall, the study demonstrates that incentivizing students to exercise can be an important tool in improving educational achievements.
Z20|Round-Robin Tournaments with Limited Resources|We propose a theoretical model of a round-robin tournament with limited resources motivated by the fact that in a real-world round-robin sport tournament participating teams are sometimes forced to distribute their effort over an extended period. We assume that the participating teams have a limited amount of effort that must be distributed between all matches. We model the outcome of each match as a first-price sealed-bid auction. Results are aggregated after all matches are played with respect to the number of wins. The teams distribute their effort striving to maximize the expected payoff at tournament completion. For a three team tournament, we describe the set of all subgame perfect Nash equilibria in pure strategies. For tournaments with a relatively low first prize, we found two types of equilibria: ‘effort-saving’ and ‘burning out’, both leading to unequal payoffs. In contrast, for tournaments with a large first prize a limited budget of effort, in general, does not allow for the first or the last move advantage to be exploited.
Z20|Choking under pressure of top performers: Evidence from biathlon competitions|"Psychological pressure affects performance. This is especially true for individuals completing precision tasks in decisive situations, such as assessment tests, job talks, or sports competitions. In this paper, I shed light on detrimental effects of pressure on performance, a phenomenon known as ""choking under pressure"". I analyze a unique setting in which the effect of pressure on performance is naturally observable: Biathlon World Cup competitions. As the last shot in the final bout of shootings is regularly decisive for the victory, pressure is highest on the leader of the competition not to miss this last shot. Using event data from 11 seasons of Biathlon World Cup, I find strong evidence for ""choking under pressure"", implying that especially leaders are more likely to fail decisive shots. Furthermore, taking more time for the last shootings bout leads to a decrease in performance. Finally, I show suggestive evidence for a momentum effect - after missing a shot during the last shooting bout, the probability of missing the last shot decreases."
Z20|Take a Chance on ABBA|The order of actions in contests may generate different psychological effects which, in turn, may influence contestants' probabilities to win. The Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence in which the first 'n' moves is the exact mirror image of the next 'n' moves should theoretically terminate any advantage to any of the contestants in a sequential pair-wise contest. The tennis tiebreak sequence of serves is the closest to the Prouhet-Thue-Morse sequence that one can find in real tournament settings. In a tiebreak between two players, A and B, the order of the first two serves (AB) is a mirror image of the next two serves (BA), such that the sequence of the first four serves is ABBA. Then, this sequence is repeated until one player wins the tiebreak. This sequence has been used not only in tennis, but also recently in the US TV presidential debates. In this study we analyse 1,701 men's and 920 women's tiebreak games from top-tier tournaments between the years 2012 to 2015. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of serving first from the effect of selection, we find that, for both genders, serving first does not have any significant effect on the winning probabilities of the two players, implying that the ABBA sequence is fair. We thus argue that it might be useful for other sports and contests in general to consider adopting the ABBA sequence in order to improve fairness.
Z20|Using equations from power indices to analyze figure skating teams|Abstract Power indices were originally developed to measure voting power. However, Saari and Sieberg (Games Econ Behav 36:241–263, 2001) and Saari (Chaotic elections, American Mathematical Society, Providence, 2001a) have suggested that the equations from power indices could potentially be used in some sports contexts as a way of evaluating athletes. This article explores this idea in the context of figure skating. The International Skating Union developed team events in figure skating for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia and for other major competitions. In this article, we show how the Shapley–Shubik and Banzhaf indices can be used to analyze contributions of athletes to their countries’ teams in figure skating team events. We illustrate this approach by analyzing the results from the 2014 Winter Olympic Games figure skating team event. We also discuss some ways in which the numbers assigned by the equations from power indices can be used in the figure skating context.
Z20|The impact of psychological traits on performance in sequential tournaments: Evidence from a tennis field experiment|In order to analyze if heterogeneity in psychological traits affects individual performance in sequential tournaments, we conducted a tennis field experiment. In the experiment, we also varied the payment schemes (individual, team, competition) to control for moderating effects of different incentives. Team incentives, risk taking, and self-esteem reduced performance whereas a preference towards competition enhanced it. On average, we observe a second mover advantage. However, individuals’ psychological traits, such as self-esteem or self-efficacy, can turn a second mover into a first mover advantage. Our results shed new light on the discussion of first vs. second mover advantages and performance under pressure. Study findings have implications for psychological requirements of competitive and team tasks in business settings.
Z20|Simulation Evidence on Herfindahl-Hirschman Indices as Measures of Competitive Balance|Measurement of the degree of competitive balance, how evenly teams are matched, is central to the economic analysis of professional sports leagues. A common problem with competitive balance measures, however, is their sensitivity to the number of teams and the number of matches played by each team, i.e., season length. This paper uses simulation methods to examine the effects of changes in season length on the distributions of several widely used variants of the Herfindahl- Hirschman index applied to wins in a season. Of the measures considered, a normalized measure, accounting for lower and upper bounds, and an adjusted measure perform best, although neither completely removes biases associated with different season lengths.
Z20|Football Point Spreads|Point spreads â€œlevel the playing fieldâ€ for favorites and underdogs in football. Point spreads can do the same for coaches. Those from lesser known schools are often passed over in polls for best coaches as criteria typically emphasize the national titles, bowl victories, and top rankings that accrue exclusively to big-time programs. Success against the spread creates its own poll in this study and recognizes coaches who might otherwise be overlooked for coaching honors.
Z20|Far Away Gold: How Distance to Host Country Affects Olympic Performance|This paper quantifies the causal effect of distance on relative medal outcomes in Summer Olympic Games by exploiting a panel data set of participating countries for 1960-2016. Potential endogeneity issues of distance between a participant and the host country are accounted for with instrumental variables. Based on the two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimations, it is found that changes in a country’s shares of gold medals are negatively affected by change in distances to host countries. This result is robust under various model specifications. Furthermore, no significant effect is found to exist in silver, bronze, or total number of medals.
Z20|Corruption and Contests: Cross-Country Evidence from Sensitive Soccer Matches|In this paper, we study the relationship between corruption, as measured by the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), and the probability of determining the outcome of a contest in a real competitive setting, in which agents in different countries are faced with exactly the same task under fixed and known rules. To that end, we utilize data from sensitive soccer matches in 75 countries during the period 2001 and 2013. In these matches, one team was in immediate danger of being relegated to a lower division (Team A) and another team was not affected by the result (Team B). Using within-country variation, we find that the more corrupt the country, the higher the probability is for Team A to achieve the desired result to avoid relegation in the sensitive matches relative to achieving this result in other, non-sensitive matches against the same team. We also find that in the later stages of the following year, the probability of Team A to lose against Team B compared to losing against a similar team (usually better than Team B) is significantly higher in more corrupt countries than in less corrupt countries. This result serves as a suggestive evidence of a quid pro quo behavior. Our findings indicate that the virus of corruption, as measured by the CPI, may infect social activities that are not necessarily directly linked to governmental activities.
Z20|The Optimal Design Of Round-Robin Tournaments With Three Players|We study the optimal design of round-robin tournaments with three symmetric players. We characterize the subgame perfect equilibrium in these tournaments with either one or two prizes. Our results show that the players who wish to maximize their expected payoffs or their probabilities of winning have different preferences about the order of games under tournaments with one or two prizes. We analyze the optimal allocations of players for a designer who wishes to maximize the players' expected total effort in the tournaments with one and two prizes, and by comparing between them, it is demonstrated that in order to maximize the players' expected total effort the designer should allocate only one prize.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Z20|Choking Under Pressure in Front of a Supportive Audience: Evidence from Professional Biathlon|Performing in front of a supportive audience increases motivation. However, it also creates a psychological pressure, which may impair performance, especially in precision tasks. In this paper we exploit a unique setting in which professionals compete in a real-life contest with high monetary rewards in order to assess how they respond to the presence of a supportive audience. Using the task of shooting in sprint competitions of professional biathlon events over the period of sixteen years, our fixed effects estimations show that high-profile biathletes miss significantly more shots when competing in front of a supportive audience. Our results are in line with the hypothesis that a friendly environment induces individuals to choke when performing skill-based tasks.
Z20|Discouragement Effect and Intermediate Prizes in Multi-Stage Contests: Evidence from Tennis’s Davis Cup|Discouragement effect of the lagging player in multi-stage contests is a well-documented phenomenon. In this study, we utilize data from 2,247 Davis Cup matches in teams’ tennis tournaments to test the effect of ahead-behind asymmetry on individuals’ performance with and without intermediate prizes. Using several different strategies to disentangle the effect of being ahead in the interim score from the effect of selection, we find that a higher-ranked player has higher probability of winning if his team is leading before the respective match. However, this effect disappears in matches in which a winner receives ranking points. This result is driven by an increased winning probability of the lagging favorite. Our findings suggest that, as predicted by previous theoretical studies, intermediate prizes may mitigate or even terminate the ahead-behind effects that arise in multi-stage contests.
Z20|The Effects of Prior Shocks on Managerial Risk Taking: Evidence from Italian Professional Soccer|A growing empirical literature documents that managerial risk taking is linked to an individual’s history of relevant shocks. Using male soccer data on 32 teams and 2160 matches covering eight seasons of the Italian premier league (“Serie A”), we provide clean evidence that change in managerial risk taking – proxied by a team coach’s decision to alter the initial system of play in a match – significantly depends on having experienced wins or defeats in the recent past. In particular, we show that prior shocks matter, as change in risk taking strongly and positively depends on prior defeats. Single defeats and heavy defeats make the coaches more risk seeking (opting for more offensive systems of play). In contrast, passing through multiple defeats in a row and experiencing single wins are associated with more cautious risk-taking behavior. Changing risk taking, though, does not seem to pay off in terms of match outcomes. Finally, we interestingly document that in top teams managerial risk taking is not sensitive at all to prior shocks, regardless of their positive or negative direction.
Z20|Professional sporting events and traffic: Evidence from U.S. cities|Sporting events concentrate people in facilities on game day. No evidence currently exists linking sporting events to traffic conditions. We analyze urban mobility data from 25 metropolitan areas with Major League Baseball (MLB) teams over the period 1990–2014. MLB‐related travel accounts for at most 0.5 percent of annual metropolitan area vehicle‐miles traveled (VMT). Instrumental variable regression results indicate MLB attendance causes an increase of about 5 million VMT, about 28,000 additional annual hours of traffic delay, and over $7 million annually in social costs from CO2 emissions in host cities. MLB games generate congestion externalities.
Z20|Are sequential round-robin tournaments discriminatory?|I examine sequential round-robin tournaments with three and four symmetric players. Each player is matched once with each other player. If the matches are organized as Tullock contests (all-pay auctions), the tournament will be almost fair (highly discriminatory): subject to the position of their matches in the sequence of the tournament, the differences in players' ex-ante winning probabilities and expected payoffs will be small (large). The differing results originate from the higher discriminating power of the all-pay auction. Moreover, the resulting discouragement effect in tournaments with all-pay auctions implies lower aggregate effort than in tournaments with suitable Tullock contests. The fairness of round-robin tournaments may be improved by the use of an endogenous sequence of matches or the requirement that players fix their effort ex-ante.
Z20|Sequential round-robin tournaments with multiple prizes|We examine the fairness and intensity of sequential round-robin tournaments with multiple prizes. With three symmetric players and two prizes, the tournament is completely fair if and only if the second prize is valued half of the first prize, regardless of whether matches are organized as Tullock contests or as allpay auctions. For second prizes different from half of the first prize, three-player tournaments with matches organized as Tullock contests are usually fairer than tournaments with matches organized as all-pay auctions. However, unless the second prize is very small, they are less intense in the sense that players exert less ex-ante expected aggregate effort per unit of prize money. Moreover, we specify how the relative size of the second prize influences the extent and the direction of discrimination as well as the intensity of three-player tournaments. Finally, we show that there is no prize structure for which sequential round-robin tournaments with four symmetric players are completely fair in general.
Z20|Sind Wettbewerbe im Profisport Rattenrennen?|Eine Reihe von Autoren - vor allem im deutschsprachigen - Raum begründet die Notwendigkeit regulatorischer Eingriffe in Profisportmärkte damit, dass der Wettbewerb auf diesen Märkten systematisch versage. Als wesentliche Ursache für Wettbewerbsprobleme innerhalb dieser Ligen oder Meisterschaften gilt dem-nach das Auftreten eines ruinösen Wettbewerbs in Form von Rattenrennen à la Akerlof. Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht die Frage, ob Rattenrennenmodelle eine geeignete Erklärung des ökonomischen Wettbewerbs in einer Sportliga darstellen und legt regulatorische Implikationen dar.
Z20|Smart Fitness: Ökonomische Effekte einer Digitalisierung der Selbstvermessung|Smart Fitness bezeichnet die digitale Erfassung individualisierter Fitness- und Lifestyledaten mit Hilfe von Wearables, Smartwatches, Apps und anderen Instrumenten. Die so generierten Daten sind für eine Reihe von Akteure wie Sportartikelhersteller, Pharmaunternehmen, Arbeitgeber sowie insbesondere auch Krankenversicherungen ökonomisch interessant. Wegen der hohen Aktualität sowohl des gesellschaftlichen Trends zur Selbstvermessung und -optimierung als auch der Verwendung personalisierter Daten im Zuge der Digitalisierung handelt es sich um ein dynamisch wachsendes und sich entwickelndes Gebiet, welches aber bisher kaum aus einer ökonomischen Perspektive untersucht wurde. In dem vorliegenden Beitrag wenden wir die ökonomische Theorie personalisierter Daten auf das Phänomen Smart Fitness an und leiten mögliche Effekte her, insbesondere auch für die Konsumentenwohlfahrt. Außerdem präsentieren wir eine nicht-repräsentative empirische Studie, welche einen ersten Einblick ermöglicht und dabei helfen kann, die empirisch relevanten Theorierichtungen zu identifizieren. Dabei stellen wir Bereiche heraus, in denen eher positive Wohlfahrtswirkungen zu erwarten sind, aber betonen auch solche, wo Wohlfahrtsgefahren lauern und daher Regulierungsrechtfertigungen bestehen. Letzteres gilt insbesondere, wenn personalisierte Fitness- und Lebensstildaten für die Individualisierung von Krankenversicherungstarifen oder Karriereentscheidungen durch Arbeitgeber verwendet werden.
Z20|Four cases in sports competition policy: Baseball, judo, football, and motor racing|Practices and conducts in professional and even amateur sports can be subject to competition laws as soon as commercial activities are involved. From an economic perspective, this implies that both directly commercial activities like the sale of broadcasting/media rights and indirectly commercial activities like defining and enforcing the rules of the games can be hit by competition policy interventions. Setting and enforcing the rules of the game is an activity with commercial effects because it influences attractiveness and marketability of the sports in question. After discussing fundamental issues, this contributions reviews selected landmark cases in sports competition policy from an economic perspective. This includes the U.S. baseball antitrust exemption, access rules to Judo tournaments, sale systems of media rights in European football as well as a unique combination of long-run exclusivity contracts, skewed allocation of common revenues, and special influences on rule-setting by some competitors in Formula One motor racing. Eventually, the areas of state aid to football clubs and mergers in Danish football are sketched.
Z20|Market-internal financial regulation in sports as an anticompetitive institution|"Financial regulation in sports is usually discussed in the context of representing an instrument against ""financial doping"". Notwithstanding the merits of this discussion, this paper takes the opposite perspective and analyses how market-internal financial regulation itself may anticompetitively influence sporting results. Virtually every regulative financial intervention distorts sporting competition to some extent and creates beneficiaries and losers. Sometimes, the actual winners and losers of financial regulation stand in line with the (legitimate) goals of the regulation like limiting financial imbalances or preventing distortive midseason insolvencies of teams. However, financial regulation may also display unintended side-effects like protecting hitherto successful teams from new challengers, cementing the competitive order, creating foreclosure and entry barriers, or serving vested interests of powerful parties. All of these effects may also be hidden agendas by those who are implementing and enforcing market-internal financial regulation or influencing it. This paper analyses various types of budget caps (including salary caps) with respect to potentially anticompetitive effects. UEFA's so-called Financial Fair Play Regulations are highlighted as an example. Furthermore, the paper discusses allocation schemes of common revenues (like from the collective sale of broadcasting rights) as another area of financial regulation with potentially anticompetitive effects. Eventually, the effects of standards for accounting, financial management, and auditing are discussed."
Z20|Doping in teams: A simple decision theoretic model<BR>[Doping in Teams: Ein einfaches entscheidungstheoretisches Modell]|A simple decision theoretic model shows the doping incentives for a member of a professional sports team. Depending on the detection probability and the punishment, a sportsman dopes not at all, at a medium or at the maximal level. The whole team has a higher incentive than an individual team member that at least some of its members dope. That there are not many proven cases of doping in team sports could be because doping is less effective or because the incentives to cover it are higher than in individual sports.
Z20|Are Sequential Round-Robin Tournaments Discriminatory?|I examine sequential round-robin tournaments with three and four symmetric players which are matched once with each other. If the matches are organized as Tullock contests (all-pay auctions), the tournament is almost fair (highly discriminatory): Subject to the position of their matches in the sequence of the tournament, the differences in players’ ex ante winning probabilities and expected payoffs are small (large). Discrepancy results from a higher discriminating power of the all-pay auction.
Z20|Family Connections in Motorsports: The Case of Formula One|Many careers find within-family career following common including law, politics, business, agriculture, medicine, entertainment, and professional sports. As children enter the same career as their parents, there are potential benefits: physical-capital transfer, human-capital transfer, brandname- loyalty transfer, and/or nepotism. In Formula One (auto racing) career following is also common where many sons follow their father into racing and many brothers race at the same time. Using a panel describing the annual statistics for drivers from 1953-2011, we find that the brothers of Formula One drivers appear to benefit from human capital transfer and nepotism but that sons gain little from human capital transfer and do not enjoy nepotism. We do find, however, that only the best drivers have sons who follow them into racing suggesting that sons can extend the brand name-loyalty their famous fathers have created. Key Words: Motorsports, Nepotism, Human Capital, Brand Loyalty.
Z20|The Host with the Most? The Effects of the Olympic Games on Happiness|We show that hosting the Olympic Games in 2012 had a positive impact on the life satisfaction and happiness of Londoners during the Games, compared to residents of Paris and Berlin. Notwithstanding issues of causal inference, the magnitude of the effects is equivalent to moving from the bottom to the fourth income decile. But they do not last very long: the effects are gone within a year. These conclusions are based on a novel panel survey of 26,000 individuals who were interviewed during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013, i.e. before, during, and after the event. The results are robust to selection into the survey and to the number of medals won.
Z20|An axiomatization of the iterated h-index and applications to sport rankings|A variant of the h-index introduced in García-Pérez (2009), called the iterated h-index, is studied to evaluate the productivity of scholars. It consists of successive applications of the h-index so as to obtain a vector of h-indices. In particular, the iterated h-index fixes a drawback of the h-index since it allows for (lexicographic) comparisons of scholars with the same h-index. Two types or results are presented. Firstly, we provide an axiomatic characterization of the iterated h-index, which rests on a new axiom of consistency and extensions of axioms in the literature to a richer framework. Secondly, we apply the h-index and iterated h-index to offer alternative sport rankings in tennis, football and basketball. These applications clearly demonstrate that the iterated h-index is much more appropriate than the classical h-index.
Z20|The Host with the Most? The Effects of the Olympic Games on Happiness|We show that hosting the Olympic Games in 2012 had a positive impact on the life satisfaction and happiness of Londoners during the Games, compared to residents of Paris and Berlin. Notwithstanding issues of causal inference, the magnitude of the effects is equivalent to moving from the bottom to the fourth income decile. But they do not last very long: the effects are gone within a year. These conclusions are based on a novel panel survey of 26,000 individuals who were interviewed during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013, i.e. before, during, and after the event. The results are robust to selection into the survey and to the number of medals won.
Z20|Against all odds? Exploring the role of game outcome uncertainty in season ticket holders’ stadium attendance demand|In this study we investigate the important but rather ambiguous role of game outcome uncertainty (GOU) in consumers’ demand for professional sports. Specifically, using a unique and strongly balanced panel data set containing information on individual physical attendance from 13,892 season ticket holders (STHs) of a German professional football club, we find evidence for a positive effect of GOU on two differing spectator decisions – both the decision to physically attend a game in the stadium and the decision on what time to enter the stadium, an aspect which has so far been neglected in the literature. Moreover, GOU seems to play an especially important role in the decision-making of one particular group: STHs with comparatively high coordination costs.
Z20|An axiomatization of the iterated h-index and applications to sport rankings|A variant of the h-index introduced in Garcia-Perez (2009), called the iterated h-index, is studied to evaluate the productivity of scholars. It consists of successive applications of the h-index so as to obtain a vector of h-indices. In particular, the iterated h-index fixes a drawback of the h-index since it allows for (lexicographic) comparisons of scholars with the same h-index. Two types or results are presented. Firstly, we provide an axiomatic characterization of the iterated h-index, which rests on a new axiom of consistency and extensions of axioms in the literature to a richer framework. Secondly, we apply the h-index and iterated h-index to offer alternative sport rankings in tennis, football and basketball. These applications clearly demonstrate that the iterated h-index is much more appropriate than the classical h-index.
Z20|Quantifying the Intangible Impact of the Olympics Using Subjective Well-Being Data|Hosting the Olympic Games costs billions of taxpayer dollars. Following a quasi- experimental setting, this paper assesses the intangible impact of the London 2012 Olympics, using a novel panel of 26,000 residents in London, Paris, and Berlin during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013. We show that hosting the Olympics increases subjective well-being of the host city's residents during the event, particularly around the times of the opening and closing ceremonies. However, we do not find much evidence for legacy effects. Estimating residents' implicit willingness-to-pay for the event, we do not find that it was worth it for London alone, but a modest wellbeing impact on the rest of the country would make hosting worth the costs.
Z20|Seeding the UEFA Champions League participants: evaluation of the reforms|We evaluate the sporting effects of the seeding system reforms in the Champions League, the major football club tournament organized by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA). Before the 2015–2016 season, the teams were seeded in the group stage by their ratings. Starting from the 2015–2016 season, national champions of the Top-7 associations are seeded in the first pot, whereas other teams are seeded by their rating as before. Taking effect from the season 2018–2019, the team’s rating no longer includes 20% of the rating of the association that the team represents. Using the prediction model, we simulate the whole UEFA season and obtain numerical estimates for competitiveness changes in the UEFA tournaments caused by these seeding reforms. We report only marginal changes in tournament metrics that characterize ability of the tournament to select the best teams and competitive balance. Probability of changes in the UEFA national association ranking does not exceed several percent for any association.
Z20|Team Vs. Individual Tournaments: Evidence From Prize Structure In Esports|This study tests the implications of tournament theory using data on eSports (video game) competitions. We incorporate team production with the theory of rank order elimination tournaments since in our analysis, competitors in an elimination tournament are groups rather than individuals. In this setting, the issue of proper incentives becomes more complicated than in the normal tournament model. Our findings demonstrate that the prize structure is convex in rank order which means that the contestants in eSports tournaments are risk averse. The results for the team games are more consistent with the tournament theory than the results for individual games. From the practical point of view, we provide decision-makers in both sports and business with the insights about the compensation design with respect to importance of the competition and its type.
Z20|Wladimir Andreff (Ed.), Disequilibrium Sports Economics: Competitive Imbalance and Budget Constraints|The economics of professional team sport leagues has been built on three main pillars in the US literature: economic equilibrium for the product market and labour market for talent; profit maximisation; and competitive balance between teams (sporting equilibrium). The European literature has brought a fourth pillar: win maximisation with a hard budget constraint (break-even accounting rule). These four pillars have remained little questioned until recently. This emerging literature is one of the motivations for launching a book dealing with disequilibrium. Another is the editor’s conviction that the reality in team sport leagues does not fit with general equilibrium solutions. The first chapter introduces the previous elements and more generally the book while the seven following chapters develop a specific aspect related to disequilibrium: an attempt at modelling; a dynamic non-equilibrium simulation; the metrics of competitive imbalance; gender imbalance on the sports programme market; and the last three chapters on soft budget constraints with three different focuses (comparison between European and US leagues; governance and agency problem; regulation regarding the new UEFA club licensing and Financial Fair Play). As a whole, the book provides an original and realistic view that can and perhaps even must shape the future of sports economics.
Z20|Dance Participation and Attendance in Denmark|Dancing may be one of the most competitive professions available career-wise. The lack of job opportunities and the competitiveness, the inherent expense in costumes and training and the high risk of injuries mean that only few dancers are able to make it their profession. However, dancing is an activity that comes with positive externalities, as various socio-economic benefits are experienced by those who practice dance non-professionally. Despite the importance of dancing, very little is known with respect to the profiles of dancers. This chapter, by availing of an information database on cultural preferences and habits in Denmark for 2004, illustrates the profiles of dancers and dance audiences and so deepens the current knowledge on the functioning of the dance market. We show that there exists a very strong positive correlation between cultural participation and the well-being of a society. These links are carefully described in the chapter.
Z20|The effect of perceived motivation of sports sponsorship: Evidence from basketball fans|Purpose – The purpose of this study is to single out the key variables in the sport sponsorship relationship, and more specifically to examine the impact of Team Achievement, Sponsor Recognition and Sponsor Altruism on two major behavioural outcomes, fans’ purchase intention and word of mouth communication. Design/methodology/approach – A quantitative method was adopted for the scope of this research and questionnaires were collected from fans of a prominent Greek basketball team. A total of 801 questionnaires were collected and interpreted by means of SPSS. Findings – The proposed model was supported by the empirical evidence. All (with the exception of one) research hypotheses were confirmed, either fully or partially (all or some of the distinct dimensions of our independent variables have a significant effect on all or some of the distinct dimensions of the dependent variables). Research limitations/implications –The sample used was predominantly individuals highly involved in the sports club and in basketball in general. As a result, the overall accuracy of the identified sponsors may have been different in case of a different population o sample, not so familiar with these two factors. Furthermore, the fact that the results came from only one type of sport and also from sport fans of a specific club, makes their generalization more sensitive. Originality/value – This research tests an integrated sponsorship model, well known in the respective literature. Nevertheless, the results draw not on the general opinions of fans regarding sponsors but on their opinion about the actual sponsors of the team they support.
Z20|Midweek Effect on Performance: Evidence from the German Soccer Bundesliga|The home advantage phenomenon is a well-established feature in sports competitions. In this paper, we examine data from 1,908 soccer matches played in the German Bundesliga during the seasons from 2007-08 to 2015-16. Using a very rich data set, our econometric analysis that is based on matching methods reveals that the usual home advantage disappears when the game is in the middle of the week instead of being on the weekend. Our results indicate that, since the midweek matches are unevenly allocated among teams, the actual schedules of the Bundesliga favour teams with fewer home games in midweek. The paper also shows that these soccer-specific findings have some implications for the design of contests in general.
Z20|First In First Win: Evidence on Unfairness of Round-Robin Tournaments in Mega-Events|The order of actions in contests may have a significant effect on performance. In this study we examine the role of schedule in round-robin tournaments with sequential games between three and four contestants. Our propensity-score matching estimation, based on soccer FIFA World Cups, UEFA European Championships and Olympic wrestling events, reveals that there is a substantial advantage to the contestant who competes in the first and third matches, which is in line with game-theoretical predictions. Our finding implies that the round-robin structure with sequential games is endogenously unfair, since it systematically favours one of the contestants.
Z20|Empirical Evidence on Educational Effects of Physical Activity: Four Examples|In this paper, we address the question of how physical activity of children and young adults affect their educational outcomes. To do so, we will take up four examples of our own work to illustrate different aspects of this research agenda. In contrast to the amazingly large literature on health effects, educational outcomes received much less attention. This is surprising given that building-up human capital is an undisputable and very expensive goal of (almost) all countries. Exploiting the ‘side-effects’ of sports and physical activity in this direction may be a cost-efficient way of improving the human capital of young people and thus increasing the future productivity of the economy. Three of the examples are based on German data, while one is based on Swiss data. Essentially, the three papers investigating the question of more versus less sports find that more sports is beneficial for cognitive skills (and some non-cognitive skills as well). Concerning the paper that compares sports activities to music related activities, the advantages of sports (compared to spending the time in structural music activity) on educational outcomes however cannot be established.
Z20|Outcome Uncertainty, Fan Travel, and Aggregate Attendance|The classical Uncertainty of Outcome Hypothesis (UOH) informs economistsâ€™ understanding consumer decisions to attend sporting events and models of team revenue generation. Coates, Humphreys and Zhou (2014) developed a reference dependent preference based consumer choice model under uncertainty to motivate the UOH in which loss-averse consumers prefer games with certain outcomes. We develop an alternative model based on a standard expected utility model of fan behavior which incorporates fansâ€™ decisions to travel to away games and aggregates decisions across local and visiting fans. This model generates predictions consistent with the classical UOH and concave team and league-wide total revenue functions.
Z20|Market power and media revenue allocation in professonal sports: The case of formula one|Recent allegations from participants of the FIA Formula One World Championship (F1) suggest that the promoter of F1 (possibly together with the sports association) violates European competition law in two ways. First, it alleged-ly abuses its market power by deducting an inappropriate high share from the rev-enues of the collective sale of media rights in order to boost the profits of its pri-vate equity parent company (vertical allocation of media revenue). Second, it alleg-edly forms a cartel with selected top teams at the detriment of smaller teams by providing both unjustified extra payments to these teams and enforcing a heavily biased horizontal allocation of media revenues, benefitting the cartel teams. Pro-fessional sports championships typically receive common revenue, for instance, from trademark rights and marketing, but often also from the sale of broadcasting and other media rights. This common revenue needs to be allocated in two ways: (i) vertical allocation between the sports authority and the participants, and (ii) hor-izontal allocation among the participants. Different professional sports champion-ships employ vastly differing schemes for both types of allocation. In this paper, we present an empirical assessment whether the current antitrust allegations against F1 may be valid. We employ concentration measures from empirical economics, like the Hirshman-Herfindahl-Index (HHI), the concentration ratio and the standard de-viation in order to assess different allocation schemes from different commercial sports. With the help of these indices we show that the allocation scheme em-ployed in F1 considerably differs from such used in other professional sports championships. We find the empirical picture to be consistent with an anticompetitive interpretation of F1 media revenue structures and policies. We conclude that there is merit in starting an in-depth antitrust investigation of Formula One motor racing, which would also represent an opportunity for the European Commission to cor-rect earlier mistakes.
Z20|The strongest link in a weak team? Performance of players with and without outside options in relegated football clubs|In this study the performance of players in relegated German football clubs is analysed, in particular the change in their contribution to team production. The players in the data sample differ regarding their outside options. Different career opportunities of players may have two effects when their current team struggles against relegation. First, players with outside options should be less motivated compared to the reference group. Second, risk attitudes of players who lack career opportunities may change. The empirical results show that players with outside options contribute less to the teams overall running distance before they are transferred to league opponents. Players who stayed after relegation with their teams played more incomplete passes, which indicates that they are more willing to take risks. Effort levels of staying players get higher, but leaving players might have superior playing talent.
Z20|Willingness to pay and accept for hosting Olympic Games in Germany|This empirical study investigates whether and how much individuals are willing to pay for hosting Olympic Games in Germany. Moreover, it is examined for the first time what individuals are willing to accept to host Olympic Games in their own country if they do not like that. Furthermore, this study identifies determinants that influence the willingness to pay (WTP) including the willingness to accept (WTA) for hosting Olympic Games in Germany. WTP minus WTA is positively driven by the felt national importance of the German Olympic team doing well. Socio-economic factors such as gender, age and income influence this measure in significant ways, too. The extrapolation of the individual WTP and WTA shows that, in the net aggregate, the German population is willing to pay €3.57 billion for hosting the Olympic Games in Germany.
Z20|Communication of trainers as one of the means for customer retention in fitness clubs| Acquiring the adequate communication style is a vital element in trainers’ profession. This research aims to reveal the effects generated via the communicative style by trainers of fitness club customers. It also intends to explore whether communication style has any relation to the regularity of class attendance as well as to the length of training periods which is conceptualised in this paper as trainers’ economic efficiency. Data collection was carried out by structured interviews in a country-side large sport centre. Trainers with at least three training sessions per week (N=20) and their groups (N=160) were interviewed using Rudas (1994) communication style survey and additional selfdeveloped interview protocols. The results revealed that the examined trainers were distributed in all four communications styles, but showing dominance in aggressive and passive styles. The classes of trainers with aggressive and assertive communication style were those that showed the highest and maintained attendance rates. It seems, that classes held by trainers who communicate in a deliberate way and convey positive messages are attended more and in a sustained way. Accordingly, their precisely set targets and explanation of training sessions content correlated with repeated attendance and customer retention. It seems that groups with extended scope of communication are characterised by stronger group cohesion where social relationships could develop easier, which have relations to perseverance and commitment. Therefore development of trainers’ communication skills may be considered as an effective tool for fitness clubs for customer retention.
Z20|Examination of the organizational frameworks of sports enterprises in the light of good german practices| In Hungary, with respect to the organizational issues associated with sports, there has occurred the demand for clarifying structural forms. The domestic development of sports raises the question in which fields the association-based sports model can be sustained, and operated further, and where organizational structures aligned with business models are viable. This article has described an example from German professional football, i.e. given an overview of the operation of Borussia Dortmund as a potential form for the enterprise and organizational solution. The strength of the demonstrated model is that the pursuance of business activities that cannot be or can be just hardly handled in the environment offered by associations is transferred to a setting dominated by economic conditions, whereas self-regulating civil values are not lost either, because the association remains the “parent company”.
Z20|Traditionalism and Timeliness in Modern Sport| The essay links social historical narratives about modernity with cultural studies views on sport, and investigates what cultural and social functions are associated with sport in our highly technicized capitalist world. While pursuing this research I always keep in mind how professional spectacle sports interact with different forms of technical media.
Z20|New business strategies of football clubs| The study investigates new strategies of football clubs in function of last few years’ trends in European football leagues. There were many changes in international professional football during the last 10-15 years that had significant effect on the success of certain clubs. We show empirical evidences about these effects based on data about revenues, transfer balance, financial and sport successes. We focus on Western European leagues and classify clubs based on their business and sport strategies.
Z20|Analysis of the leisure sport activities In university of debrecen| The sports program of the professional higher education focusing on the leisure sports opportunities. New needs, change in taste and new leisure habits of the young generation should be taken into account to design the University’s leisure sports program. In my study I was dealing with a questionnaire survey investigating the attitude of the students of the University of Debrecen to leisure sports, and the students’ opinions about their own physical status. Data collection was completed on a paper based questionnaire, 42 closed-type questions were included and a total of 213 students completed it. In conclusion I found that the students are satisfied with their physical states although not many of them do sport on a regular basis. I revealed the primary excuses for neglecting sports: lack of time, laziness and timetable discrepancies. These findings make it imperative that by avoiding the existing discrepancies the students be provided the widest range of time in their time tables available for physical activities.
Z20|Masculine brave In the feminine winter sports| The sport has significant role in the changes of the genders relation and helped to transform the conception of the sexes during the last fifty years. The women started to do conventionally male sports; the newest event was the ski jumping for female athletes at the Olympic Games of Soci. The gender stereotypes in the women sports can be stronger or weaker depending on the success or on the water haul. This phenomenon helps us to understand the new conceptions of the sexes in the context of the relationships of genders.
Z20|Coach education approach in 16 Hungarian sport federations Results of the first sport organizational audit| Nowadays the Hungarian government finances the sports in many ways; one of these grant forms is the group of 16 prioritized sports (biking, boxing, fencing, gymnastic, judo, track and field, kayak-canoeing, modern pentathlon, rowing, shooting, skating, swimming, tennis, table tennis, volleyball and wrestling) which are supported notably by the Hungarian Olympic Committee (HOC) till 2020. The purpose of the 1st sport vocational audit was to identify the current status of these sports, and also to create a database in many fields as a benchmark of the development. The sport management department of the Semmelweis University, Faculty of Physical Education and Sport Sciences (TF) contracted with the Hungarian Olympic Committee (HOC) in order to carry the sport vocational audit out. A sport develops if the numbers of the athletes grow or the results of the national teams are better. The coaches are the key persons in this development, if they could gather more children into the sport or they work better with the elite athletes the development has already done. It was examined the existence of the coach education programs; all the federations were running coaching programs for adults (OKJ) in both levels (coach assistant, coach). By 14 associations existed the first level of the higher education coaching program (BSc) and in 13 federations operated the MSc coaching program as well. All these coaching courses were common programs with schools, or universities. It was no evidence found that the federations run own coaching program but coaching license system existed in two sports at the time of the investigation.
Z20|Medals and degrees: factors influencing dual career of elite student athletes At the university of debrecen| Career planning and goal setting play a significant role in the life of elite athletes gaining critical relevance during the overlapping years with university studies. As athletic career contain a necessary end and cannot serve as a profession for life, all athletes shall go through modification period in their professional lives. The athletic career shall come to an end and elite athletes need to find another profession for which they need to prepare as well. The specialities of this undertake is that the peak or the progressive cycle of athletic career often times overlap in time with high school and university studies. This definitely challenges those young athletes who made the decision to continue their studies at the university level beside their athletic careers. The objective of this study is to explore the main factors influencing the simultaneous realisation of studies and elite sport careers during university years. Part of a complex research approach on dual career in sport this study is aimed to gain information about methods of athletes for managing their dual tasks, the perceived relationship of student athletes to their peers, teachers and coaches, and their position on the relevant policy regulations provided by the university environment. Following the development of research instruments, data collection was conducted by focus-group interviews at the University of Debrecen among student elite athletes receiving sport scholarships (N=15). Level of success in sport, sport type (individual and team) and gender distribution was taking into account. The results shall contribute to the development of a future research instrument in a form of a questionnaire to assess aspects of dual career of athletes in case of larger samples.
Z20|Changing of the broadcasting rights in connection with the Winter Olympic Game in Sochi| The authors examine how the broadcasting rights have changed relating to the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) changed media politics in the case of to the Winter Olympic Games in 2014. They present the market of the broadcasting rights and the changing of the incomes of the media rights fees. They are also examining the target of the IOC relating to the television market and exploring how it might impact the life of the broadcasting and public service media.
Z20|Athletes—the invisible resources of sports organizations| Sports organizations must prepare an annual report on their operation and assets, pursuant to the current Act on Accounting. However, when preparing this report, one must face the difficulty of defining the value intellectual assets and human resources represent, and the impossibility of its inclusion in financial statements. Therefore there is a significant difference between the value shown in accounting and the fair value of sports organizations.
Z20|Examination of the sustainability of the sport facilities in the Northern Great Plain Region of Hungary| Developing sport into an industry has become a fundamental interest and a noticeable approach in Hungary in recent years. A socalled economic orientation can also be observed in the field of leisure time sports, which was made into law in Hungary in 2011 allowing the support of sport organisations and resulting in a number of infrastructural developments in Hungary. A wide range of development opportunities remain open in sports. This evaluation aims to introduce what significant sport-investment projects have been implemented in the Northern Great Plain region in recent decades and what effects these investments have had. Surveys have been used to reveal whether these facilities originating from years of sport developments are sustainable and to what extent these are exploited for organising sport events. Based on responses provided by a number of sport facilities – including ones built in the past and also ones opened recently – it can be concluded that sport in itself cannot solve the issue of operation and possible economic growth. Considering these aspects, it is important to incorporate, not only in operation but also during planning, the idea that current facilities must „serve” not solely sport events as these in themselves will not make them profitable but they must remain open for all sorts of social events as well.
Z20|Information content of a sports undertaking’s statements serving different purposes – particularly with reference to the player rights| In the 21st century, sport is not just a fun, social cohesive force but also a business; it has become an independent industry by now and several countries possess developed sport markets. According to estimates, sport accounts for 4% of the EU’s GDP. The actuality of our research is given by the fact that the economic aspect of sports develops continuously which is also due to that more and more amounts already stream into sports in our days. In Hungary, sport is mainly state aided and has mostly financing problems while the sport businesses existing in the more developed Western Europe are principally sponsored by the private sector. The government considers sport as a strategic branch (HERCZEG et al, 2015) and manages as such because they see the international breakthrough potencies in sport as well. Sport companies must also adapt the business-based thinking, which requires the strategic planning and operation (BECSKY, 2011). The research covers the subject of economic approach of the players’ rights. The task of accounting is to give a true and fair image about the property, income and financial situation of an undertaking. Information provided by accounting is essential for both the management decisionmaking and the market operators. In Hungary, the sports undertakings, as each managing entity, have to prepare their statements according to the Act C of 2000 on Accounting (AoA.) (NAGY – BÁCSNÉ BÁBA, 2014). The purpose of this research is to examine how a domestic sports undertaking demonstrates the value of available players in the books and how the incomes and expenditures incurred with the players are accounted for, based on the regulations of the Hungarian, international associations and the Union of European Football Associations (hereinafter: UEFA). In order that the leaders of the businesses can make quick and appropriate economic decisions, it is essential in this intensively changing world that an enterprise should have a well-functioning accounting system based on up-to-date information. International Financial Reporting Standards (hereinafter: IFRS) are intended to provide the comparability across borders. Firstly, we deal with the accounting reporting system, both the Hungarian, international financial reporting standards and, relating to UEFA, the investigation of the intangible assets to a great extent during analysing the balance sheets. Then, we examine the income statements from the viewpoint player transfers. To what extent the rules of a statement laid down by UEFA differ from the ones of a statement prepared according to AoA? What is the difference in domestic and international relations? In this study, we search after the answers for questions mentioned before.
Z20|The Connection between Academic and Ath letic Performance among Elite University Student Ath letes| Athletes in higher education are not only expected to produce high level performance but to find the balance between the preparation for post-athletic life and the requirements of the university. The objective of this study is to explore the connections between academic performance and level of sport. Also, to elaborate on the role of relevant policy regulations and institutional support that help elite athletes meet academic requirements. Data collection was conducted by means of online questionnaires involving athletes receiving sport scholarships at the University of Debrecen (N=159). The data from questionnaires were processed by using SPSS 18. Version software. For data analyse four groups were extracted based on level of sport performance and involvement: international elite, division I, division II, division III. The results indicate that the academic performance on the two international elite of sport did not differ from the average, and that these athletes did not experience any difficulties earning course credits at the university while being engaged in doing sport. In most cases, elite athletes did not apply for the various kind of support instruments, thus, they are able to balance athletic preparation and academic requirements without supportive modifications of university policies. The results also shed light on the fact that the academic performance does not only depend on the level of sport and the chosen major at the university, but it is also influenced by the time devoted to study and training, and the sport type (individual or team sport). There are differences observed between athletes participating in individual or team sport concerning the general average of grades, the effectiveness of earning credits, the number of weekly training, as well as the time devoted to training in preparatory and competitive periods. According to the results, the various amount of time devoted to study or sport does not necessarily result in academic performance decline. In addition, results support that athletes do keep academic studies rather important and they are aware that university years are considered to be a significant period in preparation for post-athletic life.
Z20|Examination of Leisure Sports Alternatives Provided by Higher Education Institutions| It is one of the main duties of sports in higher education to provide health conscious and sports-loving managers to the society.University years are a good opportunity to do sports in an organised framework, as well as lifestyle consultancy and to make use of the preventive function of sports. In this environment, the approach of students can still be shaped within a formal framework and their level of interest towards sports can still be increased. Furthermore, they can be motivated and become committed to sports if they have positive experiences. The aim of my analysis is to explore and describe the characteristics, peculiarities and current situation of higher education leisure sports. In this study, I present the results of the analysis of data collected with the first eight questions of the situation assessment part of the questionnaire survey. More specifically, I examined the evaluation of leisure sports activities, free sports opportunities and the branches of sports in which these are provided. I was also looking to find out where these sports opportunities are available for students inside or outside the institution and who they are organised and managed by. At the same time, I examined sports opportunities whose costs are paid by the student and analysed which branches of sports are available. Based on my results, I concluded that the sports opportunities of students are especially good according to the managers. This statement confronts the research findings which suggest that the sports activity of students is very low.
Z20|Economists’ Perspective on Sport: Overview of the Current State-of-the-Art|The article provides an overview of current research in the field of sports economics. Sport is an area of special interest for economists due to the increasing economic and political significance of this industry. Many economic puzzles arise in sport, such as market failures, property rights, institutional design. The author demonstrates and analyzes opportunities for economic analysis in sports industry and formulates unsolved problems in this area.
Z20|Grundlagen der Sportnachfrage: Theorie und Empirie der Einflussfaktoren auf die Zuschauernachfrage|Der Beitrag referiert die Grundlagen der Theorie und Empirie der ökonomischen Analyse der Sportnachfrage mit einem Schwerpunkt auf der Zuschauernachfrage. Dabei werden unterschiedliche Einflussfaktoren auf die Zuschauernachfrage identifiziert und vor dem Hintergrund aktueller mikroökonomischer und industrieökonomischer Theorie analysiert. Zudem wird die vorhandene empirische Literatur zusammengefasst und dargestellt. Der Beitrag eignet sich einerseits als Überblicksartikel über die sportökonomische Forschung zur Zuschauernachfrage nach Sportevents und andererseits als Lehrtext zur Erzielung eines aktuellen ökonomischen Verständnisses dieser speziellen Nachfrage.
