Z28|Quantifying the intangible impact of the Olympics using subjective well-being data|Hosting the Olympic Games costs billions of taxpayer dollars. Following a quasi- experimental setting, this paper assesses the intangible impact of the London 2012 Olympics, using a novel panel of 26,000 residents in London, Paris, and Berlin during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013. We show that hosting the Olympics increases subjective well-being of the host city's residents during the event, particularly around the times of the opening and closing ceremonies. However, we do not _nd much evi- dence for legacy e_ects. Estimating residents' implicit willingness-to-pay for the event, we do not _nd that it was worth it for London alone, but a modest wellbeing impact on the rest of the country would make hosting worth the costs.
Z28|Is there an Economic Case for the Olympic Games?|The Olympic Games are a major undertaking that promise both large costs and potentially large benefits to host cities. This paper lays out the potential economic benefits of hosting the Olympics and details how, in the vast majority of cases, these gains are unlikely to cover the costs of hosting the event. The ideas are then applied to the experience of Boston in its ultimately unsuccessful bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics.
Z28|How does online streaming affect antitrust remedies to centralized marketing? The case of European football broadcasting rights|The collective sale of football broadcasting rights constitutes a cartel, which, in the European Union, is only allowed if it complies with a number of conditions and obligations, inter alia, partial unbundling and the no-single-buyer rule. These regulations were defined with traditional TV-markets in mind. However, the landscape of audiovisual broadcasting is quickly changing with online streaming services gaining popularity and relevance. This also alters the effects of the conditions and obligations for the centralized marketing arrangements. Partial unbundling may lead to increasing instead of decreasing prices for consumers. Moreover, the combination of partial unbundling and the no-single-buyer rule forces consumers into multiple subscriptions to several streaming services, which increases transaction costs. Consequently, competition authorities need to rethink the conditions and obligations they impose on centralized marketing arrangements in football. We recommend restricting the exclusivity of (live-)broadcasting rights and mandate third-party access to program guide information to redesign the remedies.
Z28|For better or worse? – The Effects of Physical Education on Child Development|This study analyzes the effects of regular physical education at school on cognitive skills, non-cognitive skills, motor skills, physical activity, and health. It is based on a very informative data set, the German Motorik-Modul, and identifies the effect by using variation in the required numbers of physical education lessons across and within German federal states. The results show improvements in cognitive skills. Boys’ non-cognitive skills are adversely affected driven by increased peer relation problems. For girls, the results suggest improvements in motor skills and increased extra-curricular physical activities. Generally, we find no statistically significant effects on health parameters.
Z28|Effects of the three-point rule in German amateur football|Possible effects of the introduction of the three-point rule in 1995 are tested by using data from amateur football leagues in Germany, concretely in Westphalia. There are as expected signifi-cantly less draws and more goals since the rule change. For even amateurs follow incentives.
Z28|For Better or Worse? The Effects of Physical Education on Child Development|This study analyses the effects of regular physical education at school on cognitive skills, non-cognitive skills, motor skills, physical activity, and health. It is based on a very informative data set, the German Motorik-Modul, and identifies the effect by using variation in the required numbers of physical education lessons across and within German federal states. The results show improvements in cognitive skills. Boys' non-cognitive skills are adversely affected driven by increased peer relation problems. For girls, the results suggest improvements in motor skills and increased extra-curricular physical activities. Generally, we find no statistically significant effects on health parameters.
Z28|Professional Sports, Hurricane Katrina, and the Economic Redevelopment of New Orleans: Revisited|Hurricane Katrina devastated the city of New Orleans in late August 2005, resulting in damage to much of the cityï¿½s sports infrastructure and the temporary departure of both of New Orleansï¿½ major league professional sports teams, the National Football League Saints and the National Basketball Association Hornets. The city spent over $500 million restoring the sports infrastructure in New Orleans, and both teams subsequently returned to the city. In addition, New Orleans has since hosted numerous mega-sporting events including the Super Bowl, NCAA Menï¿½s Basketball Final Four, and several college football national championships. This paper examines the economic impact of Hurricane Katrina on professional sports in New Orleans and traces the recovery of the city in conjunction with spectator sports.
Z28|The Rise and Fall (and Rise and Fall) of the Olympic Games as an Economic Driver|This paper traces the economic history of major sporting events focusing on the Olympics. Historically, the Olympic Games as well as other major sporting events have been considered costly events that place a burden on host cities. Only in relatively recent years, coinciding with the massive increases in the cost of hosting these events, have event organizers begun to claim that these events bring with them large economic benefits.
Z28|Laboratory Evidence on the Effects of Sponsorship on the Competitive Preferences of Men and Women|Sponsorship programs have been proposed as one way to promote female advancement in competitive career fields. A sponsor is someone who advocates for a protï¿½gï¿½, and in doing so, takes a stake in her success. We use a laboratory experiment to explore two channels through which sponsorship has been posited to increase advancement in a competitive workplace. In our setting, being sponsored provides a vote of confidence and/or creates a link between the protï¿½gï¿½s and sponsorï¿½s payoffs. We find that both features of sponsorship significantly increase willingness to compete among men on average, while neither of these channels significantly increases willingness to compete among women on average. As a result, sponsorship does not close the gender gap in competitiveness or earnings. We discuss how these insights from the laboratory could help to inform the design of sponsorship programs in the field.
Z28|Incertitude de classement final et affluence en Ligue 1 française de football : une nouvelle approche|This study proposes a new method for estimating supporters? attendance in considering uncertainty about the games results and the final ranking of teams. Outcome uncertainty is expressed by some probabilities, which is determined according to the gap between team qualities. In this turn, the qualities of teams are randomly estimated by average wages of their players. However, unlike previous studies, these probabilities are further adjusted according to the past results of these specific teams during the championship. Moreover, instead of relying on an aggregate indicator to estimate the uncertainty about the final ranking, we estimate the probability of each possible final ranking. This procedure allows us to make use of a more complete information statistics in estimation than usually done in this kind of studies. We provide three main results. First, the effect that uncertainty about the match outcome has on supporters? attendance is positive, significant and non-linear. Second, concerning the final ranking, we identify two opposite effects on supporter?s behaviour. While their attendance is inversely related to the gap between the position of their preferred team and its followers in the ongoing ranking, their attendance is also higher if the gap between each teams in the final ranking is sufficiently low. Third, supporters? attendance is not linearly decreasing with the position of the supported team in the championship, but this link presents a sinusoidal curve. The reason is that supporters? attendance also depends on the likelihood of their team to accede to Europea League during the next season, and also on the likelihood of their team being drawn out of ?Ligue?1? at the end of the season. We also show that supporters? attendance is directly proportional to the uncertainty level about the championship final victory. In particular, the attractiveness of the championship is negatively affected by the recent financial power of PSG.
Z28|Is There A Case For Subsidizing Sports Stadiums?|In recent decades, governments have committed enormous public resources to subsidize construction of new stadiums, and the dollar value of taxpayer contributions for these subsidies continues to climb. Spending of taxpayer dollars includes both direct subsidies from state and local governments, as well as indirect subsidies from the use of tax-exempt bonds to finance construction. In granting stadium subsidies, governments claim that the stadiums are a public good that attracts tourists and businesses, thereby generating increased spending and job creationï¿½benefits that flow to the community rather than to team owners. But do such benefits exist, and are they large enough to justify the scale of the subsidies? Brad Humphreys, Professor of Economics at West Virginia University, and Victor Matheson, Professor of Economics at the College of the Holy Cross, address the wisdom of public funding of sports stadiums based on the evidence. Brad argues that stadiums should not be subsidized by taxpayers, as the evidence fails to identify any tangible economic benefits generated by stadiums, and a growing body of evidence reveals that stadiums also generate additional local crime, pollution, and congestion. In contrast, Victor argues that while the economic benefits of a new stadium are probably not high enough to justify a taxpayer subsidy of the full construction costs, the benefits may be enough to justify covering some fraction of the costs. Furthermore, governments may use the subsidies to achieve desired development in targeted neighborhoods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Z28|The Economics of the World Cup|The quadrennial World Cup is perhaps the worldï¿½s most popular sporting event with millions of live fans and a worldwide television audience in the billions. It is also one of the most costly events to host with recent hosts countries such as Brazil and Russia spending around $12 billion putting on the tournament. This paper examines the costs and the benefits of hosting the World Cup with a focus on historical data and past economic impact studies.
Z28|Hosting a Mega-Event: Is it Good or Bad for the Economy? General Equilibrium Models as a Litmus Paper Test|Hosting mega-events has long been regarded as an opportunity for economic growth, creating long-lasting benefits and attaining international recognition. Recently, both the scientific community and the public opinion at large have turned much more skeptical about the impact of mega-events. Why is it that some events appear successful and other disasters? Why the perception of impacts has changed over time? To answer these (and other) questions, there is a need to go beyond the simple narratives and “stylized facts”, to undertake some serious scientific investigation, based on verifiable data and testable models. Despite the fact that most recent studies use the same modeling tool, namely some Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model, results are sometimes contradictory, thereby hindering the trustiness of the economic analysis for policy guidance. In this paper, we show that results are different because assumptions are different and because the range of effects considered is different, even when the same model is employed. Furthermore, some critical hypotheses are not often clearly stated. We advocate some kind of standardization in the process of model building for the economic assessment of mega-events. Only a transparent and replicable model exercise can serve as a “litmus paper”, to ascertain whether hosting a mega-event is good or bad for an economy.
Z28|Professional Sports Events, Concerts, and Urban Place Based Policy: Evidence from the Staples Center|We analyze the relationship between sports events and concerts, important hospitality demand drivers and key components of many urban renewal projects, in the Staples Center in Los Angeles, an arena home to three pro teams, and nearby hotel performance, exploiting exogenous daily variation in the timing of games and concerts from 2002 to 2017. Results show a small positive impact on revenue per available room at hotels within one mile of the arena and an offsetting decrease at hotels located one to four miles away. Granting nearby hotels exemptions from Los Angeles hotel taxes reduces potential tourism-generated hotel tax revenue increases.
Z28|March Madness: Ncaa Tournament Participation And College Alcohol Use|While athletic success may improve the visibility of a university to prospective students and thereby benefit the school, it may also increase risky behavior in the current student body. Using the Harvard School of Public Health College Alcohol Study, we find that a school's participation in the NCAA Basketball Tournament is associated with a 47% increase in binge drinking by male students at that school. Additionally, we find evidence that drunk driving increases by 5% among all students during the tournament. (JEL I12, I23, Z28)
Z28|Modern Sports-for-All Policy: An International Comparison of Policy Goals and Models of Service Delivery|The paper provides a collection and analysis of modern sports-for-all policies in Europe, North America, Australia and China. Promoting a healthy lifestyle among community members by providing easy access to sport facilities has been a traditional function of sport-for-all policies. Modern policy goals now also include promoting racial and gender equity and diversity, fighting doping, harassment and violence, in particular child abuse, and promoting tourism. Despite the different administrative contexts the implementation of policy goals heavily relies on volunteers and voluntary non-for profit organizations. Two in-depth case studies on sport governing bodies in Germany and England exemplify common patterns in service delivery and how policy goals have shifted from maintaining sporting facilities to non-sporting objectives like job creation, stimulation of tourism and gender equity.The paper identifies and discusses five challenges for modern sports-for-all policies: tracking the quality of public service delivery, the link between outcomes and impacts, goal ambiguity and complexity, staff size, and managing collaborations in a hyper-complex environment
Z28|The Host with the Most? The Effects of the Olympic Games on Happiness|We show that hosting the Olympic Games in 2012 had a positive impact on the life satisfaction and happiness of Londoners during the Games, compared to residents of Paris and Berlin. Notwithstanding issues of causal inference, the magnitude of the effects is equivalent to moving from the bottom to the fourth income decile. But they do not last very long: the effects are gone within a year. These conclusions are based on a novel panel survey of 26,000 individuals who were interviewed during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013, i.e. before, during, and after the event. The results are robust to selection into the survey and to the number of medals won.
Z28|Mozart or Pelé? The effects of adolescents' participation in music and sports|We analyse the effects of playing music, or doing sports on education and health outcomes of adolescents. After identifying adolescents who play music, do sports, or both, in the German Socio-Economic Panel, we use matching procedures to estimate causal effects. We find that playing music instead of doing sports fosters educational outcomes by about 0.1 standard deviations. Effects are stronger for girls, and for children from more highly educated families. Doing sports improves perceived health more strongly than playing music. Engaging in both activities, music and sports, improves educational outcomes by about 0.2 standard deviations and reduces smoking by about 10 percentage points compared to engaging in just one activity. Adolescents who engage in music spend less time watching TV or playing computer games, but more reading books. The robustness of the results is examined with respect to the identifying assumptions, including non-affected outcomes, a formal sensitivity analysis, and instrumental variable estimation. These checks do not reveal any serious problems.
Z28|The Host with the Most? The Effects of the Olympic Games on Happiness|We show that hosting the Olympic Games in 2012 had a positive impact on the life satisfaction and happiness of Londoners during the Games, compared to residents of Paris and Berlin. Notwithstanding issues of causal inference, the magnitude of the effects is equivalent to moving from the bottom to the fourth income decile. But they do not last very long: the effects are gone within a year. These conclusions are based on a novel panel survey of 26,000 individuals who were interviewed during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013, i.e. before, during, and after the event. The results are robust to selection into the survey and to the number of medals won.
Z28|Illuminating the World Cup effect: Night lights evidence from South Africa|This paper evaluates the economic impact of the $14 billion preparatory infrastructure investments for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. We use satellite data on night light luminosity at municipality and electoral district level as a proxy for economic activity, applying synthetic control methods for estimation. For the average World Cup municipality, we find significantly positive, short‐run effects before the tournament, corresponding to a reduction of unemployment by 1.3 percentage points. At the electoral district level, we reveal distinct effect heterogeneity, where especially investments in transport infrastructure are shown to have long‐lasting, positive effects, particularly in rural areas.
Z28|Evaluation of an informal rule for the allocation of sports capital funding|Abstract Significant empirical research has highlighted the existence of pork barrel politics. This is where public expenditure is targeted at particular regions based on the logic of collective action: political entrepreneurs maximize their chances of re-election by searching for and implementing programs or projects characterized by ‘concentrated benefits’ for key constituents and broadly dispersed costs. Using data on capital grants to Irish sports teams for 1998–2015, this paper analyzes the extent to which an informal rule can correct this bias. The case of allocating sports capital grants is particularly interesting since academic research, media commentary, and ministerial statements all seem to confirm the existence of political bias with such allocations in Ireland. Specifically, the geographical distribution of the grants are clearly linked to the Minister for Sport: that minister’s constituent county receives significantly higher per capita grant allocation than any other county. The grants were suspended in 2009 because of a fiscal crisis arising from the recession. When the grants were restored in 2012, a new informal rule for allocations was introduced. That informal rule was introduced to reduce the extent of pork barrel politics by ensuring that no county received less than 75 % or more than 150 % of the national average of the per capita grant allocations. The present study evaluated the effectiveness of that informal rule in reducing pork barrel politics in Irish sports capital grant allocations.
Z28|Rivalry Effects and Unbalanced Schedule Optimisation in the Australian Football League|Abstract Like many professional sports leagues, the Australian Football League (AFL) operates an unbalanced schedule in which each team plays other teams an unequal number of times (once or twice) each season. This has led the AFL purposefully to schedule certain matches to be repeated each season with the remaining fixtures mostly randomly allocated. We explore the efficacy of this policy by estimating a fixed (rivalry) effects hedonic demand model for within-season AFL matches. Estimated rivalry effects are imputed into a binary integer program minimisation that provides an optimal profile of rematches against which we consider recent historic scheduling behaviour. As expected, rivalry effects are greatest for the large-market Melbourne ‘troika’ teams, which provides partial support for the AFL’s maintained policy. However, there exists scope for increasing aggregate attendance in the unbalanced part of the season by further attention to selection of rematches. We also observe some decline in interest of the second within-season meetings of popular troika teams and a rise in popularity of the intrastate derbies. Finally, we compare our results to alternative scheduling arrangements for the unbalanced part of the season.
Z28|Which countries bid for the Olympic Games? Economic, political, and social factors and chances of winning|This contribution analyzes 132 factors on their potential to discriminate countries bidding for hosting the Olympic Games from non-bidding countries. Our binary, clustered model using generalized estimating equations (GEE) shows that countries recording long-term economic growth and pursuing a liberalization and globalization policy will consider an Olympic bid. In addition, countries with an urban population above 10 million, with stable election results and an improvement in health standards as well as more attractive tourism destinations are more likely to bid for the Olympic Games. Finally, the bid decision is shaped by experience in hosting major sports events, a country and regional rotation, persistence and climatic conditions.
Z28|Immigration to the U.S.: A Problem for the Republicans or the Democrats?|We empirically analyze the impact of immigration to the U.S. on the share of votes to the Republicans and Democrats between 1994 and 2012. Our analysis is based on variation across states and years – using data from the Current Population Survey merged with election data – and addresses the endogeneity of immigrant flows using a novel set of instruments. On average across election types, immigration to the U.S. has a significant and negative impact on the Republican vote share, consistent with the typical view of political analysts in the U.S. This average effect – which is driven by elections in the House – works through two main channels. The impact of immigration on Republican votes in the House is negative when the share of naturalized migrants in the voting population increases. Yet, it can be positive when the share of non-citizen migrants out of the population goes up and the size of migration makes it a salient policy issue in voters' minds. These results are consistent with naturalized migrants being less likely to vote for the Republican Party than native voters and with native voters' political preferences moving towards the Republican Party because of high immigration of non-citizens. This second effect, however, is significant only for very high levels of immigrant presence.
Z28|Quantifying the Intangible Impact of the Olympics Using Subjective Well-Being Data|Hosting the Olympic Games costs billions of taxpayer dollars. Following a quasi- experimental setting, this paper assesses the intangible impact of the London 2012 Olympics, using a novel panel of 26,000 residents in London, Paris, and Berlin during the summers of 2011, 2012, and 2013. We show that hosting the Olympics increases subjective well-being of the host city's residents during the event, particularly around the times of the opening and closing ceremonies. However, we do not find much evidence for legacy effects. Estimating residents' implicit willingness-to-pay for the event, we do not find that it was worth it for London alone, but a modest wellbeing impact on the rest of the country would make hosting worth the costs.
Z28|Mitigation of Perverse Incentives in Professional Sports Leagues with Reverse-Order Drafts|Abstract Efficacy of industry policy implementation is enhanced when governments expedite resolution of private sector uncertainty. This study reinforces the mechanism through which production outcomes improve, via program evaluation analysis from professional sports. An alternative determination rule for allocating picks in reverse-order drafts—fewest games played when eliminated from playoffs—is considered in comparison with the current standard (fewest wins at end-of-season). Elimination timing is estimated via Monte Carlo simulation. Using MLB and NBA data from 2005–2013, results from a quasi-natural experiment show that when a team’s perverse incentive to underperform is effectively removed prior to its final game of the season, its subsequent performance improves significantly.
Z28|Mozart or Pelé? The Effects of Teenagers' Participation in Music and Sports|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, this paper analyses the effects of spending part of adolescents’ leisure time on playing music or doing sports, or both. We find that while playing music fosters educational outcomes compared to doing sports, particularly so for girls and children from more highly educated families, doing sports improves subjective health. For educational outcomes, doing both activities appeared to be most successful. The results are subjected to an extensive robustness analysis including instrumental variable estimation and a formal sensitivity analysis of the identifying assumptions, which does not reveal any serious problems.
Z28|Long-run health effects of sports and exercise in Canada|Even though insufficient participation in physical activity is shown to be one of the major contributors to chronic diseases, and poor health, participation in physical activity still remains to be substantially low in developed countries including Canada. In this paper, we examine the long-run health effects of participation in sports and exercise among inactive Canadian adults. Based on informative Canadian panel data and semiparametric matching estimation, we show that participation in sports and exercise generally improves physical health and mental well-being of individuals. While this effect is statisti¬cally significant and persistent for men, we do not find a similar effect for women. Our results also indicate that positive health effects are only achieved with a level of physical activity that is larger than the current national and international health
Z28|Labor market effects of sports and exercise: Evidence from Canadian panel data|Based on the Canadian National Population Health Survey we estimate the effects of individual sports and exercise on individual labor market outcomes. The data covers the period from 1994 to 2008. It is longitudinal and rich in life-style, health, and physical activity information. Exploiting these features of the data allows for a credible identification of the effects as well as for estimating dose–response relationships. Generally, we find positive long-run income effects. However, an activity level above the current recommendation of the WHO for minimum physical activity is required to reap the long-run benefits.
Z28|Many Happy Returns? The Pro-Bowl, Mega-events, and Tourism in Hawaii|We use daily airplane arrival data from 2004 to 2015 from Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism to determine the net change in arrivals around a variety of sporting events. We find only one event generates a positive and significant net impact on arrivals: the Honolulu Marathon, which generates roughly 3,900 additional arrivals. No other sporting events result in a measurable increase in tourist arrivals including, notably, the NFL’s Pro Bowl, which receives a large subsidy from the state’s tourism authority.
Z28|Asymmetric Doping Effects and Sanctions in Sporting Contests|This paper analyses a one-shot game where, prior to a contest, two athletes simultaneously decide whether to engage in doping that is not certain to be detected. Doping is assumed to have at least as great a proportional effect on a naturally weaker athlete’s win probability. Given an explicit contest success function, the paper derives an optimal sanction scheme, where sanctions are identically proportional to prizes, sufficient to always induce a no-doping equilibrium. In comparison to previous papers, the winner’s optimal sanction, expressed in terms of talent and doping levels and doping costs, may be lower for all detection probabilities.
Z28|Economists’ Perspective on Sport: Overview of the Current State-of-the-Art|The article provides an overview of current research in the field of sports economics. Sport is an area of special interest for economists due to the increasing economic and political significance of this industry. Many economic puzzles arise in sport, such as market failures, property rights, institutional design. The author demonstrates and analyzes opportunities for economic analysis in sports industry and formulates unsolved problems in this area.
Z28|Where’s the Money? Incentives, Coaching, and the Long-term Athlete Development Model|The purpose in this paper is to examine the effectiveness of the long-term athlete development (LTAD) model compared to a model based on economic incentives. The emphasis, however, is on the LTAD model and reasons why it is incompatible with coach education, particular the coaching of judo. The major influences on the LTAD approach are reviewed along with recent evidence that leads to questions about its usefulness. While Judo Canada has attempted to implement the LTAD model in its program to train coaches, there remains a great deal of incongruity between the LTAD and the pedagogy that often characterizes judo. As a result,coaches who follow a program of certification do not, subsequently, employ what they have learned but, rather, return to their ‘old ways’. I argue that the incentives for becoming certified are wrong. I conclude that, rather than the attempt to standardize coaching via the LTAD model is misguided because a system that facilitates innovation is desired. Financial incentives whereby coaches and athletes are amply rewarded for success provide a better route to innovation and the Olympic podium than long-term athlete development model.
Z28|Authentic Leadership – A Multi-Component Model|The need for research on authentic leadership in social sciences has emerged in the last few years. Until, now there has been done a very little research on this construct with respect to organizational sciences. There exist many ambiguities in conceptualization of authentic leadership and there exist many gaps in literature. In this paper, the critical review of literature on authentic leadership is done and literature gaps are identified. On the basis of identified gaps, a multi-component model is given for development of authentic leadership and its consequences on organizational outcomes. Hence, the main aim of this research is to present a theory-driven model of AL that presents consequences of the AL and gives suggestion of researchable propositions. Previous model could not address the multi level analysis for analyzing antecedents and consequences of AL; hence, this paper contributes to the literature by presenting a multi-level model. The significance of this paper is that it links the authentic leadership with organization-wide outcomes. Furthermore, this model has presented the mechanism. By using that authentic leaders can influence the followers and develop them in authentic followers and authentic leaders that have considerable implications for research and practice. Hence, the present model contributes to the literature by conceptually reviewing the construct of ‘authenticity’ and proposing a framework with testable propositions. This paper stimulates inspiration in future researchers to empirically investigate the presented model. Moreover, this also has practical implications as this model provides guidelines for interventional programs to foster authenticity at workplace.
Z28|Long-Run Health Effects of Sports And Exercise In Canada|Even though insufficient participation in physical activity is shown to be one of the major contributors to chronic diseases, and poor health, participation in physical activity still remains to be substantially low in developed countries including Canada. In this paper, we examine the long-run health effects of participation in sports and exercise among inactive Canadian adults. Based on informative Canadian panel data and semiparametric matching estimation, we show that participation in sports and exercise generally improves physical health and mental well-being of individuals. While this effect is statistically significant and persistent for men, we do not find a similar effect for women. Our results also indicate that positive health effects are only achieved with a level of physical activity that is larger than the current national and international health organizations' guidelines for the minimum level of activity.
Z28|Many Happy Returns? The Pro-Bowl, Mega-events, and Tourism in Hawaii|We use daily airplane arrival data from 2004 to 2015 from Hawaii’s Department of Business, Economic Development, and Tourism to determine the net change in arrivals around a variety of sporting events. We find only one event generates a positive and significant net impact on arrivals: the Honolulu Marathon, which generates roughly 3,900 additional arrivals. No other sporting events result in a measurable increase in tourist arrivals including, notably, the NFL’s Pro Bowl, which receives a large subsidy from the state’s tourism authority.
Z28|Stadium Architecture and regional economic development: International experience and the plans of Durban|: For the FIFA World Cup 2010, South Africa plans to invest heavily. The positive economic effects that the country is hoping for stand in contrast to almost all statistical ex-post studies. This contribution emphasises that these results, usually from research under-taken in the USA, can only be generalised to a limited degree. The density of sports venues in developed countries is so high, that the marginal effects of new stadia are necessarily limited. We also emphasise that stadium design around the world was not hitherto adequately targeted towards positive economic effects. The example of Durban and its plans for a new “iconic” stadium is used to illustrate fundamental principles of stadium design and their embedding in a re-urbanisation process that have to be undertaken in order to consciously achieve positive regional economic effects.
Z28|Некоторые Аспекты Экономической Теории Государства. Научный Доклад<BR>[Some aspects of the economic theory of the state. Scientific report]|Настоящий доклад следует рассматривать в качестве введения в новую тему исследований в научном направлении ИЭ РАН «Теоретическая экономика». Его содержание представляет собой описание авторского подхода к построению экономической теории современного государства, важными составляющими которой являются теория опекаемых благ и общая концепция изъянов смешанной экономики. Указанный подход лег в основу анализа патернализма, позволил выйти за пределы привычной для этой категории «отцовской заботы» государства о своих гражданах и предложить более общую трактовку данного понятия. Наряду с институциональным, распределительным и поведенческим провалами в работе описан особый вид изъянов смешанной экономики – «патерналистский провал», представляющий комбинацию изъянов общественного выбора и нерациональных действий госслужащих. Выделены четыре типа нерациональности бюрократии: дилетантизм, «эффект кассира», закон Паркинсона и своекорыстие чиновников. В докладе рассмотрены также теоретические и прикладные аспекты концепции консенсусной демократии, обеспечивающей либерализацию процессов принятия политических и экономических решений на основе институтов гражданского общества и гражданского контроля над деятельностью органов исполнительной власти. The present report should be considered as an introduction to a new theme of research in the scientific direction of the IE of the RAS (The Institute of Economics of the Russian Academy of Sciences) called “The Theoretical Economics”. Its content represents a description of the author’s approach to the construction of the economic theory of the modern state, the important components of which are the theory of patronized goods and the general concept of flaws of the mixed economy. The specified approach formed the basis of the analysis of paternalism, it allowed to go beyond the usual, the habitual for this category “paternal care” of the state about its citizens and to offer a more general interpretation of the given concept. Along with institutional, distributive and behavioral lailures, a special type of flaws of the mixed economy is described in the paper – it is a “paternalistic failure” that represents a combination of flaws of public choice and irrational actions of civil servants. Four types of irrationality of bureaucracy are highlighted, are singled out: these are dilettantism, the “cashier effect”, the law of Parkinson and the self-interest of bureaucrats. The report also examines the theoretical and applied aspects of the concept of consensus democracy, ensuring the liberalization of the processes of political and economic decision-making on the basis of the institutions of civil society and civil control over the activities of executive bodies.
Z28|Theory of patronized goods. Liberal evolution of paternalism|The neo-classical principles of rational behavior are considered in the context of the nature of normative interests is discussed in concern of political aspects. The article illustrates the theoretical and the practical aspects of the concept of consociation democracy, providing liberalization of the institutions for making political and economic decisions. The results of analysis reveal a pattern of paternalism drifting towards institutional liberalization. Proposed a hypothesis explaining why the economic policy in modern Russia still remains somewhere between archaic and merit paternalism.
