Z29|Information, prices and efficiency in an online betting market|We study the odds (or prices) set by fifty-one online bookmakers for the result outcomes in over 16,000 association football matches in England since 2010. Adapting a methodology typically used to evaluate forecast efficiency, we test the Efficient Market Hypothesis in this context. We find odds are generally not biased when compared against actual match outcomes, both in terms of favourite-longshot or outcome types. But individual bookmakers are not efficient. Their own odds do not appear to use fully the information contained in their competitors' odds.
Z29|Predicting Match Outcomes in Football by an Ordered Forest Estimator|We predict the probabilities for a draw, a home win, and an away win, for the games of the German Football Bundesliga (BL1) with a new machine-learning estimator using the (large) information available up to that date. We use these individual predictions in order to simulate a league table for every game day until the end of the season. This combination of a (stochastic) simulation approach with machine learning allows us to come up with statements about the likelihood that a particular team is reaching specific places in the final league table (i.e. champion, relegation, etc.). The machine-learning algorithm used, builds on a recent development of an Ordered Random Forest. This estimator generalises common estimators like ordered probit or ordered logit maximum likelihood and is able to recover essentially the same output as the standard estimators, such as the probabilities of the alternative conditional on covariates. The approach is already in use and results for the current season can be found at www.sew.unisg.ch/soccer_analytics.
Z29|Trade policy preference, childhood sporting experience, and informal school curriculum: Examination from the viewpoint of behavioral economics|We investigated how childhood education and experiences helped to form noncognitive skills and later, trade policy preferences. We used individual-level data with approximately 10,000 observations collected July 2016. Using the instrumental variables (IV) method, with sporting experience and informal education in the childhood as exogenous IV, we found that (1) sporting experiences and informal education lead people to have positive subjective views about the role of group work, competition, reciprocity, patience, and generalized trust and (2) positive views about the role of group work, competition, reciprocity, patience, and generalized trust leads people to prefer the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement (TPP).
Z29|Criminals on the Field: A Study of College Football|Economists have found mixed evidence on what happens when the number of police increases. On the one hand, more law enforcers means higher probability of detecting a crime, which is known as monitoring effect. On the other hand, criminals incorporate this increase into their decision making process and thus may commit less crimes, constituting the deterrence effect. This study analyzes the effects of an increase in the number of on-field college football officials, taking players as potential criminals and officials as law enforcers. Analyzing a novel play by play dataset from two seasons of college football, we report evidence of a monitoring effect being present in the overall dataset. This effect is mainly driven by offensive penalties which are called in the area of jurisdiction of the added official. The decomposition of the effect provides a limited evidence for the presence of the deterrence effect in the case of penalties with severe punishment and committed by teams with moderately high ability.
Z29|One Team, One Nation: Football, Ethnic Identity, and Conflict in Africa|Do collective experiences that prime sentiments of national unity reduce interethnic tensions and conflict? We examine this question by looking at the impact of national football teams’ victories in sub-Saharan Africa. Combining individual survey data with information on official matches played between 2000 and 2015, we find that individuals interviewed in the days after a victory of their country’s national team are less likely to report a strong sense of ethnic identity and more likely to trust people of other ethnicities than those interviewed just before. The effect is sizable and robust and is not explained by generic euphoria or optimism. Crucially, national victories do not only affect attitudes but also reduce violence. Indeed, using plausibly exogenous variation from close qualifications to the Africa Cup of Nations, we find that countries that (barely) qualified experience significantly less conflict in the following six months than countries that (barely) did not. Our findings indicate that, even where ethnic cleavages have deep historical roots, patriotic shocks can reduce inter-ethnic tensions and have a tangible impact on conflict.
Z29|Criminals on the Field: A Study of College Football|Economists have found mixed evidence on what happens when the number of police increases. On the one hand, more law enforcers means a higher probability of detecting a crime, which is known as the monitoring effect. On the other hand, criminals incorporate the increase into their decision-making process and thus may commit fewer crimes, constituting the deterrence effect. This study analyzes the effects of an increase in the number of on-field college football officials, taking players as potential criminals and officials as law enforcers. Analyzing a novel play by play dataset from two seasons of college football, we report evidence of a monitoring e ect being present in the overall dataset. This effect is mainly driven by offensive penalties which are called in the area of jurisdiction of the added official. Decomposition of the effect provides evidence of the presence of the deterrence effect in cases of penalties with severe punishment or those committed by teams with moderate to high ability, suggesting that teams are able to strategically adapt their behavior following the addition of an official.
Z29|Should Inflation Measures Used by Central Banks Incorporate House Prices? The Czech Approach|In this paper we describe the Czech National Bank’s approach to incorporating macroprudential considerations into monetary policy decision making: the use of a broader inflation measure that gives substantial weight to house prices and is considered along with headline CPI inflation. We argue that, in terms of theory, the broader inflation gauge is at least as suitable for measuring the value of money as headline CPI inflation is, but we also acknowledge practical problems that arise from the use of the broader index.
Z29|Coping with advantageous inequity - Field evidence from professional penalty kicking|This contribution examines the effect of advantageous inequity on performance using data from top-level penalty kicking in soccer. Results indicate that, on average, professionals do not perform worse when they experience unfair advantages. However, we find a negative effect of advantageous inequity in situations where success is less important.
Z29|Effects of a Red Card on Goal-Scoring in World Cup Football Matches|We examine the effect of the sending-o of a player on the goal-scoring rates in FIFA World Cup matches in tournaments from 1998 to 2014. We use a hazard rate framework in which the effect of a red card is modeled as a shift in the goal-scoring rate. A red card may harm the team that receives a red card and may be beneficial for their opponent. Indeed, we find that the goal-scoring rate of the sanctioned team goes down, while the goal-scoring rate of the non-sanctioned team goes up.
Z29|Mozart or Pelé? The effects of adolescents' participation in music and sports|We analyse the effects of playing music, or doing sports on education and health outcomes of adolescents. After identifying adolescents who play music, do sports, or both, in the German Socio-Economic Panel, we use matching procedures to estimate causal effects. We find that playing music instead of doing sports fosters educational outcomes by about 0.1 standard deviations. Effects are stronger for girls, and for children from more highly educated families. Doing sports improves perceived health more strongly than playing music. Engaging in both activities, music and sports, improves educational outcomes by about 0.2 standard deviations and reduces smoking by about 10 percentage points compared to engaging in just one activity. Adolescents who engage in music spend less time watching TV or playing computer games, but more reading books. The robustness of the results is examined with respect to the identifying assumptions, including non-affected outcomes, a formal sensitivity analysis, and instrumental variable estimation. These checks do not reveal any serious problems.
Z29|The effect of sporting success and management failure on attendance demand in the Bundesliga: a revealed and stated preference travel cost approach| This study examines the private consumption benefits of sports attendance using revealed and stated preference data from 28 Football Bundesliga teams across three divisions. Survey respondents were presented with positive (sporting success) and negative (management failure) scenarios and asked for the number of game trips if each scenario occurred. The results of a pooled random effects Poisson model show that travel costs and ticket price have a significant negative effect on the number of home game trips. The weighted consumer surplus per game trip including travel costs and ticket prices is €345. Consumer surplus per game trip was found to change by €41 (first division) and €98 (second and third division) if the positive scenario occurred and by €39 if the negative scenario occurred.
Z29|Do Victories and Losses Matter? Effects of Football on Life Satisfaction|Every week during the autumn season, millions of Americans attend football games and even more watch the sport on TV. In addition to generating entertainment revenues, previous research has also shown that sports events lead to changes in emotions in minds of fans. This study examines whether sports infl uence the subjective well-being of the population. Using data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), an ordered logit model estimates effects of a local college football team's results on the life satisfaction of local citizens. The analysis suggests that unexpected wins have positive effects on life satisfaction. Surprisingly, no effect is found for cases of unexpected losses or outcomes which can not be labeled as surprising based on the pre-game betting market.
Z29|Long-Run Health Effects of Sports And Exercise In Canada|Even though insufficient participation in physical activity is shown to be one of the major contributors to chronic diseases, and poor health, participation in physical activity still remains to be substantially low in developed countries including Canada. In this paper, we examine the long-run health effects of participation in sports and exercise among inactive Canadian adults. Based on informative Canadian panel data and semiparametric matching estimation, we show that participation in sports and exercise generally improves physical health and mental well-being of individuals. While this effect is statistically significant and persistent for men, we do not find a similar effect for women. Our results also indicate that positive health effects are only achieved with a level of physical activity that is larger than the current national and international health organizations' guidelines for the minimum level of activity.
Z29|Long-run health effects of sports and exercise in Canada|Even though insufficient participation in physical activity is shown to be one of the major contributors to chronic diseases, and poor health, participation in physical activity still remains to be substantially low in developed countries including Canada. In this paper, we examine the long-run health effects of participation in sports and exercise among inactive Canadian adults. Based on informative Canadian panel data and semiparametric matching estimation, we show that participation in sports and exercise generally improves physical health and mental well-being of individuals. While this effect is statisti¬cally significant and persistent for men, we do not find a similar effect for women. Our results also indicate that positive health effects are only achieved with a level of physical activity that is larger than the current national and international health
Z29|Mozart or Pelé? The Effects of Teenagers' Participation in Music and Sports|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, this paper analyses the effects of spending part of adolescents’ leisure time on playing music or doing sports, or both. We find that while playing music fosters educational outcomes compared to doing sports, particularly so for girls and children from more highly educated families, doing sports improves subjective health. For educational outcomes, doing both activities appeared to be most successful. The results are subjected to an extensive robustness analysis including instrumental variable estimation and a formal sensitivity analysis of the identifying assumptions, which does not reveal any serious problems.
Z29|Labor market effects of sports and exercise: Evidence from Canadian panel data|Based on the Canadian National Population Health Survey we estimate the effects of individual sports and exercise on individual labor market outcomes. The data covers the period from 1994 to 2008. It is longitudinal and rich in life-style, health, and physical activity information. Exploiting these features of the data allows for a credible identification of the effects as well as for estimating dose–response relationships. Generally, we find positive long-run income effects. However, an activity level above the current recommendation of the WHO for minimum physical activity is required to reap the long-run benefits.
Z29|Survey of fans habits at two games of the 2013 Men’s Handball World Champioship in Madrid| I have done a survey at the World’s Men Handball Championship 2013 in Madrid during two games of the Hungarian team among the Hungarian’s and the opponent’s fans. I was curious about how are the fans, who are coming to the World Championship, are behaving in this enviroment. I was also interested how strong bonds they have with the handball as a sport and what are their financial budget for this global event. At last I compared the number of the sport fans visiting the stadiums in Madrid in 2013 and in Gothenburg in 2011.
Z29|The role of small-scale sports events in developing sustainable sport tourism – a case study of fencing| Promoting sports and sport tourism is considered as a strategic development objective at the local, regional and national levels in Hungary. However, sport tourism is present in many different forms, depending on the type of sport activity, the related sport events and its participants, therefore it is challenging to decide on the type of sports and sports events that should be supported to ensure long-term social and economic benefits for a local community. The scale of sports events ranges from the small, local competitions to the international mega sports events. Although the economic benefits of mega sports events are generally appreciated, there has been growing critique about their negative social and environmental impacts. Smallscale sports events also have important potential for tourism, and they may have more advantages for the local community than the mega events by providing additional incomes, using the already existing infrastructure, raising local pride and community spirit. Sport tourism related to small-scale events is generally considered to be a more sustainable form of tourism. The purpose of this paper is to examine the tourism development potential of small-scale sports events, particularly focusing on fencing competitions. It highlights the demand side of the sport tourism market, investigating the behavioral profile of the participants of an international fencing tournament. A questionnaire survey was conducted at the Budapest WestEnd Women’s Epee Grand Prix 2014. The data revealed that participants of the sporting event spend only a short period of time at the destination, and shopping and eating out are the most preferred free time activities. The paper identifies and discusses issues regarding the role of sports organizations and tourism agencies in cities hosting such events to increase the tourism potential of small-scale sports events in the future.
