Z30|Do short-term rental platforms affect housing markets? Evidence from Airbnb in Barcelona|In this paper, we assess the impact of the arrival and expansion of Airbnb on housing rents and prices in the city of Barcelona. Examining highly detailed data on rents and both transaction and posted prices, we use several econometric approaches that exploit the exact timing and geography of Airbnb activity in the city. These include i) panel fixed-effects models with neighborhood-specific time trends, ii) an instrumental variable shift-share approach in which tourist amenities predict where Airbnb listings will locate and Google searches predict when listings appear, and iii) event-study designs. For the average neighborhood in terms of Airbnb activity, our preferred results imply that rents have increased by 1.9%, while transaction (posted) prices have increased by 5.3% (3.7%). The estimated impact in neighborhoods with high Airbnb activity is substantial. For neighborhoods in the top decile of Airbnb activity distribution, rents are estimated to have increased by 7%, while increases in transaction (posted) prices are estimated at 19% (14%).
Z30|Awareness of Tourism Products and Tourist Satisfaction: A Case of Indonesia|Objective - The Jember District has a very exotic beach tour of Papuma Beach, which shows its white sand and provides historical tours of the Cave of Japan. Papuma Beach is ranked number 1 of the 10 most beautiful beaches in the Jember District. This research aims to understand the influence of tourism product components on the satisfaction of tourists. The components of tourism products in this study include attractiveness, facilities, and accessibility. Methodology/Technique - This research is a quantitative study with a population of tourists visiting Papuma beaches. The number of samples in this study amounted to 40 samples. The data is analysed using a multiple regression analysis with the SPSS program. Findings - The results of the study show that the influence of tourist attractions and facilities on the satisfaction of tourists at the Papuma Beach Tour in the Jember District is strong. Novelty - However, the accessibility variable has no significant effect on satisfaction.
Z30|A Study on the Willingness to Develop Sports Tourism in Taiwan|Objective – This study aims to construct a model for the willingness to develop sports tourism, using the factors of place attachment, the impact of sports tourism, attitude and willingness to develop sports tourism. Methodology/Technique – The study gathers data via questionnaires. Following this, purposive sampling is used to distribute the questionnaires and the collected data is analysed using descriptive statistics, confirmatory factor analysis and a structural equation model. Findings – Once the aforementioned analysis is conducted, the following conclusions were drawn. First, the model construction fits well. Second, the factor of place attachment has a significant positive influence on the perceived impact of sports tourism. Both the positive perception of sports tourism and the attitude for developing sports tourism have a positive impact on willingness to develop sports tourism. Contrary to this, negative perceptions of sports tourism have a negative impact on the attitude to develop sports tourism, although it has no significant impact on the willingness to develop sports tourism. Novelty – This study demonstrates that the higher the degree of place attachment associated with the inhabitants of Taiwan, the greater recognition there is of the impact of sports tourism. The most important finding of this study is that this positive impact enhances the attitude and willingness of inhabitants to develop sports tourism. The study also develops some practical strategies based on the study results.
Z30|Tourism, amenities, and welfare in an urban setting|Using data on Italian cities, we document that over the period of 2001–2011, the number of establishments and employment in some key service industries are positively related to the inflow of tourists. We then build a general equilibrium model of small open cities encompassing these empirical features to study the impact of tourism on endogenous consumption amenities, factors’ allocation across sectors, prices, and welfare. We also study the interplay of exogenous historical amenities, tourism, and residents welfare in a system of two cities. When residents are immobile, they are unambiguously better off when they live in a city with richer historical amenities, and thus more tourists, than the other city. When residents are mobile and their welfare is equalized between cities, the strength of consumption amenities becomes crucial to determine whether they are better off living in an urban system where cities are heterogeneous or similar in terms of historical amenities.
Z30|Econometrical Analysis of the Demand for Entrance Tourism in Kazakhstan|The article deals with the modeling the demand for inbound tourism in Kazakhstan and in the regions. The panel data for 16 countries was used - the basic sources of tourist flows and the period from 2010 to 2014. Modeling is carried out separately for the South-Kazakhstan region of 5 tourist zones. As the determinants of demand the gross national product in the country of origin, exchange rate, transport costs, cost of living and the lagged demand variable was considered. The estimates of dynamic models of demand correspond to the expectations, are statistically significant and can be useful in the practice of development planning of tourism in different municipalities and regions of Kazakhstan.
Z30|Revisión de gasto sector comercio, industria y turismo|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Comercio, Industria y Turismo. Contiene cuatro grandes secciones. La primera se refiere a la aproximación metodológica que se siguió en la construcción de la línea de base para el ejercicio de revisión y para la discusión con las entidades del sector. En la segunda se hace una descripción de la construcción de la línea base, así como los primeros resultados que se obtienen de ésta. Posteriormente se describe el proceso realizado con las entidades en las mesas operativas para definir la calificación de prioridad y desempeño, establecer inflexibilidades e ineficiencias, y elaborar las propuestas de reasignación, tanto para los proyectos de inversión como a nivel de las transferencias de capital. En las últimas secciones del documento se discuten elementos del proceso presupuestal del sector que resultaron de la revisión de gasto y las lecciones principales del ejercicio.
Z30|Management Control Systems within Sustainable Ecotourism: A Study of Belitung|"""Objective – This study aims to examine the implementation of ecotourism management control systems in Belitung. The purpose of this is to make the management system more effective and efficient in achieving its targets. Methodology/Technique – Questionnaires were delivered to tourism department officers in Belitung and a direct interview was also conducted with the Regent. The established goals for the development of ecotourism management are defined using the Management Control System ('MCS') framework to effectively and efficiently obtain and utilize resources to achieve those objectives. These goals require targeted congruence, supported by motivated employees, running on formal and informal control mechanisms with the application of risk allocation. Findings – This research shows that management control systems have been applied in the development of inclusive and sustainable ecotourism. However, personal and organizational target congruence shows areas for improvement, particularly with respect to shifting from mining to ecotourism as the the source of economic profitability. Novelty – The Belitung local government has recently amended its policies to focus more heavily on the development of inclusive and sustainable ecotourism. """
Z30|Blockchain in financial services: Regulatory landscape and future challenges|Distributed ledger technologies (DLTs), including blockchains, are increasingly getting a massive interest from established industries. The interest is especially strong among financial services firms, which are starting to see DLTs as a potential driver of huge savings in infrastructure and back-office processes.
Z30|Forecasting travelers in Spain with Google queries|We examine whether web search queries help economic agents with predictions about the checking in and overnight stays of travelers in Spain in real time. We show that the models including queries outperform models that exclude these leading indicators. In this way, we aim to contribute to the literature on the link between the Internet and the tourism market.
Z30|The Tourism in Vietnam|Tourism is an important component of the modern Vietnamese economy. Since foreign tourists have been able to travel freely in the country in 1997, Vietnam has become a new tourist destination in Southeast Asia. The economy of Vietnam has transformed from an agrarian to a service economy. More than a third of gross domestic product is generated by services, which include the hotel and catering industry and transportation. This paper aims to describe an overview and draw some policy issues on tourism in Vietnam.
Z30|Employment, Capital and Seasonality in Selected Mediterranean Countries|The paper examines the influence of tourism industry on GDP, employment and capital investments in selected Mediterranean countries (Croatia, France, Greece, Italy and Spain). It points out important contribution which tourism has on economic activity and capital investment of selected economies and labour market. The analysis highlights the importance of tourism strength in generating employment. It synthesizes data on tourism employment and employment according to educational level. The results show that the quality of human capital is increasing but at the same time indicating gender discrimination in tourism labour market. Despite women being the majority of higher education degree holders in tourism, men hold upper-management and decision-making positions more often than women do. Lastly the paper indicates strong contribution of tourism sector in GDP and total employment in selected countries showing strong problem of seasonality. JEL Classification: J40, J70, Z30
Z30|The evolution of tourism services in Romania|In this paper, the authors evaluate the tourism services in the Romanian economy during the recent period. The potential and resource of major tourism area in the country are analyzed. The main indicators considered in the scope of the research are the arrivals of tourists, the net use of accommodation index, the arrivals of foreign tourists, emphasizing the value corresponding to the European Union citizens, the preference for tourism manifested by some categories - pensioners, students.
Z30|From Global To Intra-Regional Tourism|Regardless of how society has evolved, travel and tourism have had a positive development since the end of Second World War. But now it seems that the perception of risk and danger is accentuated and the tourists choose destinations based on more safety and security for tourists. Risks often seem to be based on different global activities and actions from different groups, which the individual can not affect or influence over. These perceived risks thus affect the development of tourism and travel in a global perspective. This article would discuss the new threats to the global tourism due to the terrorist attacks that target different countries and in many cases the popular tourist destinations. With the result that travel has become more intra-regional again. The article makes a review of the slightly incomplete statistics available in the area and discuss possible strategies for overcoming the existing terrorist attacks. The conclusions of the article points to a more concrete cooperation between international and national organizations, governments, as well as NGOs, tour operators and civil society in general.
Z30|Measuring economic value of cultural institutions: Cultural sector efficiency in public policy|Today, many cultural institutions like museums, theaters or libraries, are considered as major economic agents who can have a profound economic impact. This paper reviews different approaches to analyze economic value and efficiency of cultural institutions in public policy; it also discusses the major arguments that explain the evolving roles of those institutions in society. The shortcomings of the evaluation approaches are also discussed.
Z30|The Creation Of A New Tourist Destination In Low Density Areas: The Boticas Case|The goal of this paper is to contribute to identify a set of resources and tourism products, which can enhance the development and sustainability of tourism in the low density municipality of Boticas, located in the north east of Portugal. Therefore, this paper tries to: i) produce a first analysis of the tourism potential of the municipality of Boticas; and ii) identify different perceptions of different stakeholders regarding the tourism potential of Boticas. To this end, the content analysis of semi-structured interviews conducted in 2014 to local and regional social and political stakeholders were used. Likewise, in 2015 two focus groups were conducted with main local stakeholders. The results highlight three main facts: first, there are unexplored tourism resources with potential to attract certain niches of tourist demand; second, the region has been investing in the diversification of its supply of leisure and recreational activities, as well as available tourism equipment; and third, the region is facing serious difficulties in creating a local and regional stakeholder network in order to provide an integrated promotion of tourism. We conclude by identifying few policy recommendations on development issues for the municipality of Boticas or other rural areas presenting similar constraints.
Z30|Organizational and Economic Problems in the Management of the Spiritual - Historical Development of Tourism in South Kazakhstan Region|Nowadays the international market of tourist service is a great mechanism with many billion-dollar and fierce competition, so the priority is the definition of the tourist product, which is unique to Kazakhstan and features will be in demand. For the Republic of Kazakhstan the tourism industry is a top priority and here more attention to the development of inbound and domestic tourism was paid, development of exciting itineraries of cultural, environmental, equestrian and recreation areas. The new tourist brand of Kazakhstan was “at the crossroads of the worlds, in the center of Eurasia.” The actuality of research by the fact that in the economy of Kazakhstan tourism is one of the most powerful factors that allow economies to develop, to introduce new technologies, to solve social problems is determined. That is why we often hear such features of tourism as “phenomenon of the twentieth century, the explosion of tourism,” “tourism revolution.” The purpose of the research is the formation of spiritual-historical, patriotic consciousness. The development of spiritual and educational sphere, preservation and efficient using of cultural heritage has particular significance for the history and culture of the region.
Z30|Generation Z And Its Perception Of Work|One of the major demograhic phenomenon registered in the present times is represented by the aging of the Romanian population and, consequently, of the workforce, this issue having several implications for the human resource management in organizations. As generation Z prepares to enter the labor market, managers will be facing a set of generational differences between their employees. As a result, the paper presents the characteristics of generation Z, as highlighted by recent studies. Moreover, the paper presents the results of a survey based on a questionnaire adressed to university students, members of generation Z. The results of the study highlight generation Z perception of the ideal workplace and working conditions, the main priorities in selecting a job and its career expectations and aspirations. The implications of the study, as well as future research directions are discussed.
Z30|Internationalisierung von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen im Dienstleistungssektor im Lichte der (amtlichen) Statistik|Der Dienstleistungshandel Deutschlands hat seit 2001 erheblich zugenommen. Inwieweit KMU des Dienstleistungssektors am Dienstleistungshandel teilnehmen, war bisher unklar. Unsere Analysen zeigen, dass zwar nur 14% dieser KMU exportieren, sie aber anteilsmäßig stärker zum Exportvolumen des Sektors beitragen als KMU im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe. Dienstleistungen werden vor allem zwischen Unternehmen bzw. innerhalb von multinationalen Konzernen gehandelt, z. B. Nutzungsrechte für geistiges Eigentum oder FuE-Ergebnisse. In den Wirtschaftsabteilungen Verkehr, Handel und unternehmensbezogene Dienstleistungen erzielt ein exportierendes KMU im Schnitt 20% des Jahresumsatzes mit dem Auslandsgeschäft.
Z30|The role of museums in bilateral tourist flows: evidence from Italy|This paper estimates the causal relationship of supply of art on domestic tourist flows. To this aim, we use aggregate bilateral data on tourist flows and various data on museums in the twenty Italian regions. To solve the potential endogeneity of the supply of museums, we use three different empirical strategies: we use a fixed effects model controlling for bilateral macro-area dummies, we compute the degree of selection on unobservables relative to observables which would be necessary to drive the result to zero and, finally, we adopt a two-stage least squares approach that uses a measure of historical patronage, the number of noble families, as an instrument for the number of museums. For each empirical strategy, there is strong evidence of a positive effect of the number of ‘net-museums’ on bilateral tourist flows.
Z30|Philatelic Boosterism: Tourism Stamps Of Small Island States|Small island states, because of their small populations and/or territorial size, compete with larger states on the world political map for identity, investment, revenue and visibility. Tourism represents one economic sector where these island states compete for tourist revenues. How they promote themselves internationally can be measured by the images they present of their amenity environments and culture and their hosting of regional religious, sporting and heritage events. Stamps, along with official webpages, are both products the state can/may use to increase its visibility; philatelic boosterism describes this strategy. I investigate the content of tourist stamps of twenty-four island states in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Europe, Africa and Asia. The major images portrayed are colorful, scenic, natural landscapes, festivals and cultural heritage. Few stamps depict maps, colonial histories and environmental uncertainties, including natural hazards. Tourism stamps appeal to international tourist markets, portray positive gazes and provide income for many small states.
Z30|Generational Differences In Work Values In The Hotel Industry|In the present working environment there are three different active generations, generally known as: Baby Boomers, Generation X and Generation Y. For the first time in history, three different generations have to cooperate in the workplace and are in direct competition for a job or a new managerial position. This situation creates new challenges in managing human resources in the hotel industry, where an excellent communication between all functional and operational departments is mandatory in order to deliver quality services. The paper aims to address these issues by presenting the main work values of employees in the Romanian hotel industry. The implications of the findings are discussed, considering the limitations of the empirical study presented and the future research directions.
