Z31|Networks, Markets, and Inequality|The interaction between community and markets remains a central theme in the social sciences. The empirical evidence is rich: in some instances, markets strengthen social ties, while in others they undermine them. The impact of markets on inequality and welfare also varies widely. This paper develops a model where individuals in a social network choose whether to participate in their network and whether to participate in the market. We show that individual behavior is defined by the q-core of the network and the key to understanding the conflicting evidence is whether the market and the network are complements or substitutes.
Z31|Developing International Migrant Labors Pattern: The Case of Tourism and Hospitality Industry|The needs of international migrant labors to fill in the shortages of labor in various sectors have created several advantages. Further, the employment of international migrant labors in tourism and hospitality industry presents a series of opportunities alongside challenges for stakeholders such as migrants, employers and host communities. The international migrant labors can assist in making market entry mode and marketing strategies selection decisions. Astudy was conducted to develop international migrant labors pattern in the case of tourism and hospitality industry in Langkawi, Malaysia. The pattern of international migrant labors is presented through their various socio-demographic profiles. It is noted in the pattern that majority of the international migrant labors is male within the range of 31-50 years old and only few of them are still single. In fact, most of them are from Thailand. The pattern shows similar results for the female international migrant labors. The pattern also highlights that the international migrant labors for both male and female graduated from university, however, only few of the females possessed the degree certificate. Interestingly both male and female international migrant labors can communicate good English. This pattern would assist the tourism and hospitality industry to plan a strategic recruitment process concerning the international migrant labors. By taking into account their socio-demographic profiles would contribute to the segmentation of the international migrant labors for future recruitment.
Z31|Wintertime for Deceptive Advertising?|Casual empiricism suggests that deceptive advertising about product quality is prevalent, and several classes of theories explore its causes and consequences. We provide unusually sharp empirical evidence on its extent, mechanics, and dynamics. Ski resorts self-report substantially more natural snowfall than comparable government sources. The difference is more pronounced on weekends, despite third-party evidence that snowfall is uniform throughout the week—as one would expect given plausibly greater returns to exaggeration on weekends. Exaggeration is greater for resorts that plausibly reap greater benefits from it: those with expert terrain and those not offering money back guarantees. (JEL D83, L15, L83, M37, Z31)
Z31|Going for the Gold: The Economics of the Olympics|"In this paper, we explore the costs and benefits of hosting the Olympic Games. On the cost side, there are three major categories: general infrastructure such as transportation and housing to accommodate athletes and fans; specific sports infrastructure required for competition venues; and operational costs, including general administration as well as the opening and closing ceremony and security. Three major categories of benefits also exist: the short-run benefits of tourist spending during the Games; the long-run benefits or the ""Olympic legacy"" which might include improvements in infrastructure and increased trade, foreign investment, or tourism after the Games; and intangible benefits such as the ""feel-good effect"" or civic pride. Each of these costs and benefits will be addressed in turn, but the overwhelming conclusion is that in most cases the Olympics are a money-losing proposition for host cities; they result in positive net benefits only under very specific and unusual circumstances. Furthermore, the cost–benefit proposition is worse for cities in developing countries than for those in the industrialized world. In closing, we discuss why what looks like an increasingly poor investment decision on the part of cities still receives significant bidding interest and whether changes in the bidding process of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) will improve outcomes for potential hosts."
Z31|Few Determinats Of The Average Amounts Of Money Tourists Spend While Visiting Alba County. A Regression Model Considering White'S Heteroskedasticity- Consistent Standard Errors & The Covariance And Different Weights Techniques|The aim of this research is to analyse the average expenditure of thetourists visiting Alba County during 2013-2015, and the way this is influenced by differentindependent variables. Into Equation Estimation, Least Squares Options, we outlined the nextspecific estimation settings: for Coefficient covariance matrix we selected ‘White‘ and forweights options we pointed out Inverse standard deviation for Type, we entered NO_DAYS in theWeight series field, and for Scaling we choose Average mode. In the log-log regression model,half of the predictors will determine an increase and the other half will determine a decrease inthe tourists' average expenditure. According to the model, the results show that if the number ofdays at the destination increases by 1 %, the expenditures will increase by 0.58%, and if thenumber of visits increases by 1 % than the expenditures will decrease by 0.64%. Of all theexogenous dichotomous variables, the one related to 56_65 age (i.e. tourist between 56 and 65years old) contributes most to the decrease of the estimated average expenditure, by about1.16%, and the one that contributes most to their increase is ‘staff amiability‘, by about 0.70%.In conclusion, we accomplished to estimate the equation by using White‘s heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors & covariance and different Weights options. The results show that in49% of the cases, tourists' average expenditure increases and it decreases in 51%.
Z31|Impact of promotional tools on reservation channels management: a descriptive model of Italian accommodation facilities|Abstract Digital evolution has greatly affected the tourism industry, bringing new challenges and opportunities to accommodation facilities. Literature confirms that new technologies allow building personal and interactive relationships with customers, but also cause tourism service providers to interface with new intermediaries, especially the Online Travel Agencies. However, there is a lack of empirical studies showing which marketing activities are helpful to engage customers and overcome the difficulties highlighted by scholars. This paper aims to bridge the gap, by assessing the relationship between promotional tools used by accommodation facilities and the percentage of bookings received through direct channels, digital direct channels and Online Travel Agencies. Hypotheses are tested through a GLM model with data from 1194 accommodation facilities distributed on the Italian territory, interviewed in the summer 2015. The paper contributes on two levels: by showing which tools, primarily digital, are statistically significant to decrease the dependence from Online Travel Agencies in favor of direct bookings and by highlighting the relevance of the cooperation with destinations. Implications for further research are discussed.
Z31|Analytical Potential of the Major Indicators in Hospitality Industry|The article consists of two parts. The first one is theoretical and considers the cognitive nature, the advantages and disadvantages, the methods of measuring and the analytical potential of the major indicators in hospitality industry: revenue per available room (RevPAR), net revenue per available room (NRevPAR), adjusted revenue per available room (ARPAR), gross operating profit per vailable room (GOPAR). Special emphasis is put on the revenue per available room indicator (RevPAR) which has been recognised as the optimal tool for comparisons in hospitality industry owing to its sustainability. The nature of the second part of the article is of practical application. The changes in the revenue per available room (RevPar) indicator for high category business hotels in ten leading European tourist cities have been analysed based on data for the period 2008-2014 as well as on forecasts for the years 2015 and 2016. The comparative analysis revealed changes in the leadership in the sector of business hotels based on the revenue per available room (RevPAR) indicator. The way the changes in the rate of the revenue per available room (RevPAR) indicator have taken place has also been analysed through the use of two types of growth rate – growth rate on a chain-weighted basis and on a fixed basis. Applying the principle of scientific abstraction through the use of the chain substitution method the author has demonstrated the importance of the indicators of average daily rate and occupancy for the positive growth in the revenue per available room for the survey period. The necessity for careful management of the average daily rate - occupancy has been confirmed and it is this ratio that is of crucial importance for a hotel’s success.
Z31|Managing A Complex Adaptive Ecosystem: Towards A Smart Management Of Industrial Heritage Tourism|This paper is focused on the concept of business ecosystem, which is a relatively new field in management research. Furthermore, there is a second emerging research approach in social sciences named “complexity theory” that considers ecosystems, and business ecosystems, as complex adaptive systems. The main aim is to connect both by bringing new insights under the basis of a smart vision of tourism. In particular, we propose a theoretical discussion of the aforementioned concepts by applying them to the specific context of Industrial Heritage Management. The Industrial Heritage (i.e.: mining sites, old infrastructures, museums and historic places related to industry…) is chosen because it appears well representative: it is characterized by a complex and dynamic structure which consists of an interconnected population of stakeholders and several tangible and intangible resources to recover, organize and then manage. It follows that the management of this ecosystem should take into account many factors simultaneously. Based also on the emergent initiative of Smart Tourism, a conceptual model is presented, in which each component is explained and the focal complexity aspects appearing in this business ecosystem are highlighted. We conclude with a set of propositions for recommending new paths for future studies.
Z31|Transnational Diffusion of Environmental Preferences: The Roles of Similarity and Proximity|This paper uses data for more than 260,000 individuals in 34 European countries, 2002-2013, to study how nations’ socio-demographic, economic, and environmental similarity and geographic, institutional, cultural and economic proximity affect the transnational diffusion of environment-related preferences. We measure environmental preferences by the importance people attach to environmental preservation (environmentalism) and to wealth and possession (materialism). We find that nations’ environmental preferences differ less if nations are more similar in terms of their socio-demographic, economic, and environmental conditions, and more proximate in terms of geography, common institutions and culture, and intensity of trade relations. The importance of the various dimensions of similarity and proximity differs between environmentalism and materialism. In particular, greater institutional proximity (EU membership) is associated with greater similarity in environmentalism, whereas greater cultural proximity (belonging to the Nordic, Western, Eastern, and Mediterranean region) is associated with greater similarity in materialism. The intensities of watching entertainment TV and information TV affect environmentalism and materialism differently.
Z31|The Effects of Compliments on the Feelings of Job Attitudes of Hotel Employees|Hardly found is research clarifying the correlation between an individual’s attitude change and compliment, through its positive measurement. In particular, it is much harder to find research that verifies such effects with hotel employees, who are highly dependent on personal services through a positive mechanism of compliments. This research, therefore, aims to propose a plan that can be utilized for future management of human resources in the hotel industry by clarifying the effects of compliments on the job attitude of hotel employees from first-class hotels in the Busan region. Results suggest that: The dependent variable - feelings of job attitude - is measured by both personal and organizational aspects. A simple regression model is used to test hypotheses 1 and 2, in which the results verify that both have statistically significant effects. Between the two, personal attitude shows higher influence. This indicates that verbal compliments have larger impacts on job attitude than institutional rewards related to human resource management, such as promotion or compensation. Conclusion suggests that compliments are not burdensome yet more efficient through frequent use.
Z31|Necessity of Changes in the System of Hospitality Industry and Tourism Training in Terms of Import Substitution|The purpose of the authors in this study was to prove the relevance of research identifying the necessity of changes in the system of training for hospitality industry and tourism in terms of import substitution. The aim of this research was to assess the significance of tourism in the framework of import substitution, to justify the need for changes in the system of training for hospitality and tourism industry in recent situation. It is also essential to give practical recommendations on training and education development. The authors implemented expert assessment method and statistics analyses, tourists’ questionnaires evaluating their travel preferences and personal materials and findings to enable construction of complex model of training and education development for hospitality industry. All above mentioned techniques allow authors to introduce their own findings concerning this issue in terms of import substitution. Through the study the authors scrutinize and generalize the problems concerning training and education for hospitality industry and give offers and solutions to improve activities most vital and perspective for the industry. The authors emphasize that it is essential not only to follow our national concept of import substitution but also to take into consideration the employers’ requirements for staff working in hospitality. Furthermore, it is of vital importance to influence hospitality management to take part in educational programs development, while educators and scientists should introduce new technologies of customer service to the business organizations. As a result of implementing authors’ recommendations given in the following article it will be likely to generate competitive tourism products and modernized educational programs which will meet customers’ demands. The article findings are of practical importance for training and development in hospitality industry organization. It also has practical significance for all types of training organizations in hospitality industry and researchers of international training for the industry in the terms of import substitution
Z31|The Effect Of Key Factors On Green Consumption Intention In The Green Hotel Industry|Band image is established to create an environment for customers living in green hotels. Customers can participate in environmental protection measures away from home. The goal is to help consumers generate a positive green perceived value, green trust, and green consumption attitude toward green hotels, thereby improving green consumption intention. The present study explores relationships between brand image, green perceived value, green trust, green consumption attitude, and green consumption intention for the green hotel industry. We find significantly positive correlations and impacts among brand image, green perceived value, green trust and green consumption attitude, and green consumption intention. These findings provide perspectives and insights into the impact on green consumption intention. The environmentally friendly hotel industry might use this information to implement environmental protection measures and make strategic suggestions to promote public green consumption
Z31|Social Influence Bias in Online Ratings: A Field Experiment|The aim of this paper is to study the empirical phenomenon of rating bubbles, i.e. clustering on extremely positive values in e-commerce platforms and rating web sites. By means of a field experiment that exogenously manipulates prior ratings for a hotel in an important Italian tourism destination, we investigate whether consumers are influenced by prior ratings when evaluating their stay (i.e., social influence bias). Results show that positive social influence exists, and that herd behavior is asymmetric: information on prior positive ratings has a stronger influence on consumers’ rating attitude than information on prior mediocre ratings. Furthermore, we are able to exclude any brag-or-moan effect: the behavior of frequent reviewers, on average, is not statistically different from the behavior of consumers who have never posted ratings online. Yet, non-reviewers exhibit a higher influence to excellent prior ratings, thus lending support to the social influence bias interpretation. Finally, also repeat customers are affected by prior ratings, although to a lesser extent with respect to new customers.
Z31|A Model For The Transition Towards The Sustainable Management Of Tourism Destinations In Ireland|Tourism destinations depend upon complex development, planning, management and stakeholder involvement. The sustainable management of tourism requires consideration due to the contribution it makes to environmental, cultural/social and economic issues. However tourism destination management is not a straight forward process. Organisations tasked with developing tourism need to be aware of the sensitive issues which may affect the local community. This papers draws on previous doctoral research into both the demand and supply of sustainable tourism in Ireland. Additional analysis from research into the levels of sustainable management of tourism destinations in Ireland was also used to construct a model to help in the transition towards sustainable management of tourism destinations (SMTD). Future tourism policy making may be enhanced by the implementation of the model for the transition towards the sustainable management of tourism destinations.
Z31|Building Brand Awareness In The Medical Travel Market|The research work has as objective to determine the factors that contribute to the construction of the e-Reputation of a medical tourism business. The research tries to propose to medical facilitators methods and in particular Web marketing strategies, to help improve the ergonomics and the effectiveness of their web sites in order to meet the expectations of potential patients (medical tourists). The first part of the thesis exposes fundamental theories on medical tourism, its history and the issues it represents, the segmentation of the world market and the flow of patients to different destinations, the role of the medical facilitator in the patient experience, the internet and e-Reputation. The second part is based on a research with a twofold objective: on the one hand determining the motivations of medical tourists and the information they need in order to be reassured to seek treatment abroad. On the other hand, to determine which is the best approach used by the medical facilitators to meet the needs of these tourists and understand how they can build their image on the Internet (e-Reputation). The results of the analysis will help formulate marketing messages to meet the needs of the new patterns of medical tourists, who are now Internet users.
Z31|The Role Of The Regional Development Association Of Nationalities Along The Mura (Muramenti Nemzetisegi Teruletfejlesztesi Tarsulas) In The Croatian-Hungarian Cross Border Cooperation With A Special Attention On Tourism|Despite the intensification of cross-border relations, it has been experienced that Euroregions were not able to achieve effective cooperation so far. The main reasons can be detected due to multi-heterogeneity, plural recruitment of interests and disinterest due to the lack of resources. To solve this problem, Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 on a European grouping of territorial cooperation (EGTC) was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, thus the organization of EGTC have been created (MARTINEZ, A. A. 2014). The analysed local government association made continuous efforts in the last 25 years to develop the Croatian and Hungarian areas. This cooperation was based on trust as well resulting in the creation of the Mura Region EGTC which we believe will result in a quality change in terms of economy and tourism development as well. This is possible because the EGTC functions as a quasi-enterprise, being a legal entity as well and so it is able to tender not only the national sources but directly from Brussels. It is also a unique situation at this organisation that while in the Carpathian Basin the cross border relations are mainly based on Hungarian-Hungarian relations, in this case the Croatian-Croatian partnership is dominating. In addition, size and existing daily inter-ethnic relations contribute to the high level of success (BALI, L.-FITOS, G. 2012). The Mura Region EGTC was registered by the Croatian and Hungarian partners in June 2015 to strengthen the social-economical cohesion with the improvement of accessibility on the micro level and the evolving of eco-touristic developments for less environmental impacts. The Mura Region provides unique natural environment and a rather complex potential for tourism (CSAPO, J. 2014). Unfortunately the quantity and quality of the infrastructure demands further investments to satisfy different needs of the tourists. Creating a good relationship for cooperation and permanent search for financial resources are essential tasks for local governments. This study aims to demonstrate the formation, programming activity and future potential of the Mura Region EGTC pointing out recommendations of further development directions by presenting past and relevant present projects and analysing their multiplier effects. The research is completed with detailed legal analysis and interviews with municipal leaders.
Z31|Local Authority Planning Provision Of Policies And Guidelines For Event Management: An Irish Perspective|This paper examines the role local authorities play in planning for event management on a global scale. More specifically it focuses on assessing the local authority planning provision of policies and guidelines to responsibly manage the process of event management in the Republic of Ireland. This research utilised a quantitative methodology in the form of a content analysis approach. This approach allowed for a valuable cross representation of results in relation to local authority planning for event management in Ireland. Analysis revealed a lack of adoption and integration of planning policies and guidelines within local authorities nationwide. This has implications for the sustainability and longevity of the event industry in Ireland. As such the need to understand the importance of developing and implementing sustainable planning systems for the event industry in Ireland by local authorities cannot be ignored. This paper concludes that while the lack of adoption of planning systems by local authorities in Ireland is worrying, regulating and implementing sustainable planning systems nationwide can improve it.
Z31|International passanger survey at the Airport Debrecen – Main characteristics of departure visitors from AD| The main reason of the research is to make a survey of the habits of foreign visitors arriving in Debrecen by air and their satisfaction. What was experienced in 2013 regarding low foreign proportion is also noticable in 2014. In the examined two months, of the whole passenger traffic between London and Debrecen only 10-15% is tourism by foreign visitors. There was not any information before about consumption of tourists arriving in Debrecen by air. In the course of my research I was examining the main elements of consumptions. From the gathered infromation from the questionaires it can be ascertained that on many occasions service providers failed to accomplish satisfying levels, quality. Underachievement occured and the experience of the visitors was worse than their expectations. This gives reasons for the indicators detailed analysis. The results of the satisfaction test might be an essential basis to further develop the city’s tourist products and services in the future. Personal experience of either visitors satisfaction or dissatisfaction, gets stored as a memory which influences future decisions on travelling. Because of this the city has to make an effort to provide higher standards of quality to people travelling into Debrecen by air from the first moment of arrival till the last moment of departure and leave satisffied.
Z31|Economical aspects of thermal and medical tourism| Thermal and medical tourism in Hungary are characterised by a continuous development. The management, efficiency, operational effectiveness and offer of enterprises in the field of tourism influence the competitiveness of Hungary’s tourism. In the present day economic life the thorough analysis of the enterprises’ economy is indispensable. The result of the analytical methods applied by the report provide information for different stakeholders (owners, transporters, customers, employees, habilitators). The aim is to have data which inform us about the functioning, financial situation and profitability of the economic entities parallel with the factors and conditions determining these elements. In our paper we present the financial situation of the Demjén Thermal Spa Ltd., being one of the newest thermal spas of Hungary.
Z31|A Different Look at Lenin's Legacy: Trust, Risk, Fairness and Cooperativeness in the two Germanies|What are the long-term effects of Communism on economically relevant notions such as social trust? To answer this question, we use the reunification of Germany as a natural experiment and study the post-reunification trajectory of convergence with regard to individuals’ trust and risk, as well as perceived fairness and cooperativeness. Our hypotheses are derived from a model of German reunification that incorporates individual responses both to incentives and to values inherited from earlier generations as recently suggested in the literature. Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, we find that despite twenty years of reunification East Germans are still characterized by a persistent level of social distrust. In comparison to West Germans, they are also less inclined to see others as fair or helpful. Implied trajectories can be interpreted as evidence for the passing of cultural traits across generations and for cooperation being sustained by values rather than by reputation. Moreover, East Germans are found to be more risk loving than West Germans. In contrast to trust and fairness, full convergence in risk attitude is reached in recent years.
Z31|Life satisfaction and the economic and social characteristics of neighbourhoods|No abstract is available for this item.
Z31|Keeping in touch – A benefit of public holidays using time use diary data|This paper argues that public holidays facilitate the co-ordination of leisure time but do not constrain the annual amount of leisure. Public holidays therefore have benefits both in the utility of leisure on holidays and (by enabling people to maintain social contacts more easily) in increasing the utility of leisure on normal weekdays and weekends. The paper uses the variation in public holidays across German Länder based on more than 37.000 individual diary data of the actual German Time Use Survey of 2001-02 to illustrate the positive association between more public holidays and social life on normal weekdays and weekends. These benefits are additional to the other, direct benefits of public holidays.
Z31|Richard Layard y la Economía de la Felicidad|El presente artículo destaca el aporte interdisciplinario, y por ende innovador para la teoría económica ortodoxa, propuesto por Layard para el entendimiento del origen y las causas de la felicidad; así mismo, procura un análisis crítico de las virtudes y falencias de argumentación del autor, de las estrategias para el alcance del bienestar individual y de las propuestas de política pública que pueden conducir a la obtención de la felicidad colectiva.
