Z39|Awareness of Tourism Products and Tourist Satisfaction: A Case of Indonesia|Objective - The Jember District has a very exotic beach tour of Papuma Beach, which shows its white sand and provides historical tours of the Cave of Japan. Papuma Beach is ranked number 1 of the 10 most beautiful beaches in the Jember District. This research aims to understand the influence of tourism product components on the satisfaction of tourists. The components of tourism products in this study include attractiveness, facilities, and accessibility. Methodology/Technique - This research is a quantitative study with a population of tourists visiting Papuma beaches. The number of samples in this study amounted to 40 samples. The data is analysed using a multiple regression analysis with the SPSS program. Findings - The results of the study show that the influence of tourist attractions and facilities on the satisfaction of tourists at the Papuma Beach Tour in the Jember District is strong. Novelty - However, the accessibility variable has no significant effect on satisfaction.
Z39|The Contribution of Tourist Attraction, Accessibility and Amenities in Creating Tourist Loyalty in Indonesia|Objective - The Pulau Merah Beach is the most beautiful beach and enjoys number one ranking from the other seven beaches. The unique beach of Pulau Merah in Banyuwangi is so popular among the people of East Java, it is also one of the destinations favored by foreign tourists, particularly for surfing. The Pulau Merah Beach is uniquely placed in a small hill located close to the shoreline. The Pulau Merah beach has a 200-meter-high hill and this reddish color causes the beach to be known as the Pulau Merah Beach. This study aims to determine the partial and simultaneous effects of tourist attraction, accessibility, and amenities on tourist loyalty on the Pulau Merah beaches. Methodology/Technique - This research is a quantitative study. The sample includes 80 tourists visiting Pulau Merah Beach. The data is analyzed using a multiple regression analysis with the SPSS Program. Findings - The results of the study show that tourist attraction, accessibility, and amenities have a significant, partial and simultaneous effect on tourist loyalty. Novelty - Attractiveness, accessibility, and amenities have a significant influence on the satisfaction of tourists.
Z39|A Study on the Willingness to Develop Sports Tourism in Taiwan|Objective – This study aims to construct a model for the willingness to develop sports tourism, using the factors of place attachment, the impact of sports tourism, attitude and willingness to develop sports tourism. Methodology/Technique – The study gathers data via questionnaires. Following this, purposive sampling is used to distribute the questionnaires and the collected data is analysed using descriptive statistics, confirmatory factor analysis and a structural equation model. Findings – Once the aforementioned analysis is conducted, the following conclusions were drawn. First, the model construction fits well. Second, the factor of place attachment has a significant positive influence on the perceived impact of sports tourism. Both the positive perception of sports tourism and the attitude for developing sports tourism have a positive impact on willingness to develop sports tourism. Contrary to this, negative perceptions of sports tourism have a negative impact on the attitude to develop sports tourism, although it has no significant impact on the willingness to develop sports tourism. Novelty – This study demonstrates that the higher the degree of place attachment associated with the inhabitants of Taiwan, the greater recognition there is of the impact of sports tourism. The most important finding of this study is that this positive impact enhances the attitude and willingness of inhabitants to develop sports tourism. The study also develops some practical strategies based on the study results.
Z39|The Economic Limits of Bitcoin and the Blockchain|The amount of computational power devoted to anonymous, decentralized blockchains such as Bitcoin's must simultaneously satisfy two conditions in equilibrium: (1) a zero-profit condition among miners, who engage in a rent-seeking competition for the prize associated with adding the next block to the chain; and (2) an incentive compatibility condition on the system's vulnerability to a “majority attack”, namely that the computational costs of such an attack must exceed the benefits. Together, these two equations imply that (3) the recurring, “flow”, payments to miners for running the blockchain must be large relative to the one-off, “stock”, benefits of attacking it. This is very expensive! The constraint is softer (i.e., stock versus stock) if both (i) the mining technology used to run the blockchain is both scarce and non-repurposable, and (ii) any majority attack is a “sabotage” in that it causes a collapse in the economic value of the blockchain; however, reliance on non-repurposable technology for security and vulnerability to sabotage each raise their own concerns, and point to specific collapse scenarios. In particular, the model suggests that Bitcoin would be majority attacked if it became sufficiently economically important — e.g., if it became a “store of value” akin to gold — which suggests that there are intrinsic economic limits to how economically important it can become in the first place.
Z39|Knowledge management in Interreg cross-border cooperation: A project perspective|"The management of knowledge in projects delivers benefits, while the im-plementation of knowledge management is challenged by (project-specific) issues. Based on practice in interorganizational, cross-border projects funded by the Interreg South Baltic Programme (SBP), this paper analyses the potential value and hindrances of knowledge management in projects funded within Interreg programs. The SBP mentions repeatedly ""Transfer of knowledge and exchange of good practices"" as an example activity in the program manual (Interreg South Baltic Programme 2016b, pp. 13, 25, 34, 38), however, dedicated knowledge management processes, tools or plans are not part of the com-pulsory application for funding nor its assessment. Knowledge management (KM) can provide value at different levels: to individuals, project partner organisations, the entire programme and even cross-programme as well as other project stakeholders. While KM can support strategy towards building competitive advantage in the programme region, KM processes can enhance the efficiency of project implementation. Worth noting is the impact of KM on individual motivation both for joining a project and for contributing to knowledge exchange. [...]"
Z39|Framing individual choice behaviour in uncertain environmental settings: An analysis of tourist preferences in the face of global warming|Unlike current stated preference studies, this paper examines the existence of framing effects from varying information about the environmental features characterizing the decision-making context where respondents are asked to state their preferences. Thus, it adds to the existing literature on framing effects which has usually been focused on analysing the welfare impacts derived from changing information relating to substitute goods and individuals’ budget constraint, the attributes defining the good to be valued and the complexity of the choice task. In particular, and through a novel choice experiment design, the paper investigates the impacts on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) from varying information about the degree of uncertainty over an expected global warming-derived increase in the temperature of a traditional summer holiday destination. Results show that the WTP increases with the magnitude of the expected temperature change and its associated probability of occurrence. Thus, they evidence that the degree of uncertainty over an expected environmental phenomenon can affect preferences for policies aimed at adapting to the environmental conditions resulting from such phenomenon. The implications of the results for decision-making in traditional sun and beach tourism destinations are also discussed.
Z39|Econometrical Analysis of the Demand for Entrance Tourism in Kazakhstan|The article deals with the modeling the demand for inbound tourism in Kazakhstan and in the regions. The panel data for 16 countries was used - the basic sources of tourist flows and the period from 2010 to 2014. Modeling is carried out separately for the South-Kazakhstan region of 5 tourist zones. As the determinants of demand the gross national product in the country of origin, exchange rate, transport costs, cost of living and the lagged demand variable was considered. The estimates of dynamic models of demand correspond to the expectations, are statistically significant and can be useful in the practice of development planning of tourism in different municipalities and regions of Kazakhstan.
Z39|Management Control Systems within Sustainable Ecotourism: A Study of Belitung|"""Objective – This study aims to examine the implementation of ecotourism management control systems in Belitung. The purpose of this is to make the management system more effective and efficient in achieving its targets. Methodology/Technique – Questionnaires were delivered to tourism department officers in Belitung and a direct interview was also conducted with the Regent. The established goals for the development of ecotourism management are defined using the Management Control System ('MCS') framework to effectively and efficiently obtain and utilize resources to achieve those objectives. These goals require targeted congruence, supported by motivated employees, running on formal and informal control mechanisms with the application of risk allocation. Findings – This research shows that management control systems have been applied in the development of inclusive and sustainable ecotourism. However, personal and organizational target congruence shows areas for improvement, particularly with respect to shifting from mining to ecotourism as the the source of economic profitability. Novelty – The Belitung local government has recently amended its policies to focus more heavily on the development of inclusive and sustainable ecotourism. """
Z39|Features of Structural and Functional Model of Students’ Professional Mobility Formation|The relevance of the study to these problems reasoned by the fact that in economic crisis and social dynamism times the problem of professional self-determination of the individuals considered from a different point of view, because people can repeatedly change their occupational status, qualifications and enterprise team during their whole lives. In this regard, this article is dedicated tithe development of structural-functional model of students’ professional mobility formation in modern conditions. The article presents the features of the regional structural and functional model of students’ professional mobility formation developed by the authors, comprising the following relationship of its components: The regional social order for human resources’ training, target, content-procedural, technological, monitoring and assessment-productive ones. This models based on social partnership and coordination of students’ vocational training with an innovative educational environment of the region. Pedagogical conditions of students’ professional mobility formation are proposed, the practical implementation of which in a particular individual institution of higher educationist related to the need to take into account regional factors: The possibilities of the institutions, the availability of companies and organizations in which the students can have practice, geographical location and regional affiliation of the city where the high school is located.
Z39|Management System of Information Technology Studies for the Students of Professional Development Courses|The relevance of the present research is explained by the need in such a management system of information technology studies for the students of professional development courses that will allow the teachers to boost the process of students’ developing necessary skills and make it in a way that is found comfortable for the latter and takes into consideration their individual characteristics. The research aims at determining peculiarities of management systems of information technology studies for the students of professional development courses, the leading method of the research being the learner centered approach that focuses on the ways of teacher-student cooperation in the learning process. The research encompasses the key components of the information technology studies management as in the case of the Tochka Dostupa system (Transl.: Access point) which now sees the implementation of an information system “AIS Nalog-3” (Transl.: Information system Tax-3). The use of the said components of the Tochka Dostupa system helps to form students’ professional skills necessary for fulfilment of various professional tasks. The materials can be used not only in the management of information technology studies for the students of professional development courses but also for the university and vocational courses students.
Z39|Civic Participation And Public Spaces: A Key Factor For Sustainable Tourism In Historic Cities|Attractive public spaces are crucial for tourism. After all, most tourists that visit a city, experience it by foot and increasingly by bicycle. Public spaces have to meet a few minimum requirements. If not, tourists will feel uncomfortable. For instance; a lot of rubbish and graffiti, worn out and damaged street furniture can cause a feeling of unsafety. Attractive public spaces are the ones that invite tourists to stay a bit longer than strictly necessary and sit down and relax. Some of these spaces are quit and green, others more vibrant, well dimensioned and furbished. In this paper I describe a method for defining and measuring the quality of public space and also for predicting the conclusion tourists may draw based on this; “will I revisit this place or not ?” In some cities inhabitants, local shop owners and local institutions voluntarily take the initiative to upgrade the quality of public spaces or even act as ‘city hosts’ to welcome visitors. These kinds of civic participation help to provide the unique experience many tourists are looking for.
Z39|Teachers Professional Competence Assessment Technology in Qualification Improvement Process|Scientific and methodological validity of diagnostic procedures and techniques for the study of teachers’ professional competence is designed to ensure the efficiency and dynamism of education management, early detection of possible professional deformations and its correction in the qualification improvement training and in the process of personal and professional self-development. In this regard, this article is focused on the development of technologies to assess the teachers’ professional competence in the process of their qualification’s improvement process. The leading method in the development of this technology are the analysis of the scientific and methodological literature and practical experience which allow reveal its core elements: The tasks of diagnosis, the entities of diagnosis, a set of procedures based on the principles of system-structured pedagogical diagnostics, means and diagnostic tools. In the article the main components and their qualitative indicators to assess the development of teachers’ professional competence in the process of qualification improvement process are proposed. Article submissions are of practical value for managers of teachers’ qualification improvement training courses when evaluating their professional competence.
Z39|The Model of Self-realization Readiness Formation of Research Universities Students in the Process of Civic Education|The relevance of the study is reasoned by the demand for professionals who are not only competitive in the labor market, but also possess civil position, ready for self-realization and construction of their own life in the flow of social transformation. The purpose of the article is to develop a knowledgeactivities-model of readiness formation to self-realization of research universities students in the process of civic education. The leading method is the method of modeling, allowing consider the problem of research as a purposeful process of students’ focus formation to choose the social role and civic position in the social and economic relations on the basis of understanding of their goals in life. The structure of the developed model includes a target (goal, objectives), methodological (the principles of integration, a participatory, continuity, multiculturalism), content (cognitive-oriented, project-case, civil-activities methods), organizational and procedural (including in educational content of educational material on the theory and practice of civil society; formation of information-event-learning environment; the development of teachers’ methodological culture) and result (search activity, commitment and perseverance in achieving objectives, industriousness, readiness for independent decisions in a situation of choice, the responsibility for the choice of means to achieve the goal, awareness of their rights and obligations, duty and civic reliability) components. The model suggests the development of students’ moral, legal and political focus based on personal-significant actions and it is also of practical value for teachers of research universities.
Z39|Organizational and Economic Problems in the Management of the Spiritual - Historical Development of Tourism in South Kazakhstan Region|Nowadays the international market of tourist service is a great mechanism with many billion-dollar and fierce competition, so the priority is the definition of the tourist product, which is unique to Kazakhstan and features will be in demand. For the Republic of Kazakhstan the tourism industry is a top priority and here more attention to the development of inbound and domestic tourism was paid, development of exciting itineraries of cultural, environmental, equestrian and recreation areas. The new tourist brand of Kazakhstan was “at the crossroads of the worlds, in the center of Eurasia.” The actuality of research by the fact that in the economy of Kazakhstan tourism is one of the most powerful factors that allow economies to develop, to introduce new technologies, to solve social problems is determined. That is why we often hear such features of tourism as “phenomenon of the twentieth century, the explosion of tourism,” “tourism revolution.” The purpose of the research is the formation of spiritual-historical, patriotic consciousness. The development of spiritual and educational sphere, preservation and efficient using of cultural heritage has particular significance for the history and culture of the region.
Z39|The Effect Of Key Factors On Green Consumption Intention In The Green Hotel Industry|Band image is established to create an environment for customers living in green hotels. Customers can participate in environmental protection measures away from home. The goal is to help consumers generate a positive green perceived value, green trust, and green consumption attitude toward green hotels, thereby improving green consumption intention. The present study explores relationships between brand image, green perceived value, green trust, green consumption attitude, and green consumption intention for the green hotel industry. We find significantly positive correlations and impacts among brand image, green perceived value, green trust and green consumption attitude, and green consumption intention. These findings provide perspectives and insights into the impact on green consumption intention. The environmentally friendly hotel industry might use this information to implement environmental protection measures and make strategic suggestions to promote public green consumption
Z39|The impacts of Hosting Major Sporting Events: Resident’s Perceptions of the Mediterranean Games 2013 in Mersin|This study investigates the residents’ perceptions of the Mediterranean games (MG) 2013. Data was collected by questionnaire survey of 1700 residents of Mersin by applying quota sampling. A structural model to assess the factors on residents’ perceptions of the impacts of the 2013 MG and how these perceptions affect their support is tested. The findings confirmed the five factor model that is consisted of economic benefits, economic costs, social benefits, social costs and image enhancement and revealed that there is a strong support for 17th MG. Image enhancement and economic benefits are the main factors that determine the residents’ support.
Z39|Discourse Analysis of the Multi-Voiced Tourist Guide. Discursive Particularities of Guided Tours|This paper aims to analyze the discursive peculiarities specific to the oral discourse of a tourguide. Our objective is to highlight the specificity and originality of oral discourse used by the tourguide, and for this, we use a pragmatic analysis, because this type of discourse is stronglyinfluenced by a speech communication situation. The essay is based on an oral corpus consisting ofrecordings made in authentic conditions during a guided tour to Meteora monasteries.
Z39|The Real and the Ideal Engineer-technologist in the View of Employers and Educators|In accordance with the tendencies of socio-economic development and a high need for competitive engineers-technologists in contemporary society, Russia needs such a modernization of higher professional technical education system that takes into account the requirements of modern manufacture. Therefore, this article is aimed at expert research by employers and university teachers of professional and personal qualities of a competitive engineer-technologist. The leading methods in the study of this problem are the observation, conversation, expert interviews, questionnaires and testing allowing reveal an assessment by employers and teachers of most important professional competence and personal qualities of engineers-technologists. The paper finds that the most important professional competences, communication skills and moral qualities of the ideal and the real engineer - technologist, allocated by business leaders and teachers of the university, in fact are the same. Also it reveals discrepancies in the evaluation by employers and educators of engineers’-technologists’ personal qualities. The materials of this article may be useful in the selection and structuring of the content of engineers-technologists’ training, and may be taken into account in the implementation of students’ training and industrial practice.
Z39|Philatelic Boosterism: Tourism Stamps Of Small Island States|Small island states, because of their small populations and/or territorial size, compete with larger states on the world political map for identity, investment, revenue and visibility. Tourism represents one economic sector where these island states compete for tourist revenues. How they promote themselves internationally can be measured by the images they present of their amenity environments and culture and their hosting of regional religious, sporting and heritage events. Stamps, along with official webpages, are both products the state can/may use to increase its visibility; philatelic boosterism describes this strategy. I investigate the content of tourist stamps of twenty-four island states in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Europe, Africa and Asia. The major images portrayed are colorful, scenic, natural landscapes, festivals and cultural heritage. Few stamps depict maps, colonial histories and environmental uncertainties, including natural hazards. Tourism stamps appeal to international tourist markets, portray positive gazes and provide income for many small states.
Z39|A Romanian Tourism Market Analysis – Developments And Trends After The Eu Accession|In Romania, a country of rich touristic heritage, the total contribution of tourism to the 2014 GDP was 4.8% and, according to the country report published by the World Tourism and Travel Council (WTTC), this contribution is expected to rise to only 5.1% over the next decade. Obviously, for an emerging economy with a high touristic endowment this current condition cannot be satisfying. In this paper we intend to accomplish a specific analysis of the tourism market evolution after its EU accession. Our undertaking starts from two complementary questions: How did the Romanian tourism market develop, following the country’s EU accession? Are there any tourism development gaps between the country’s counties? Our research includes assessments of both the touristic demand and supply by counties and the municipality of Bucharest, as well as of the county groupings resulted from a cluster analysis using 6 indices (2 for demand, 2 for supply and 2 aggregate ones). The assumptions we start from are that a positive impact has been induced on Romania’s tourism after its accession into the EU, but in terms of its regional development, major development gaps between counties still persist and even deepen.
Z39|The Role Of The Regional Development Association Of Nationalities Along The Mura (Muramenti Nemzetisegi Teruletfejlesztesi Tarsulas) In The Croatian-Hungarian Cross Border Cooperation With A Special Attention On Tourism|Despite the intensification of cross-border relations, it has been experienced that Euroregions were not able to achieve effective cooperation so far. The main reasons can be detected due to multi-heterogeneity, plural recruitment of interests and disinterest due to the lack of resources. To solve this problem, Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 on a European grouping of territorial cooperation (EGTC) was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, thus the organization of EGTC have been created (MARTINEZ, A. A. 2014). The analysed local government association made continuous efforts in the last 25 years to develop the Croatian and Hungarian areas. This cooperation was based on trust as well resulting in the creation of the Mura Region EGTC which we believe will result in a quality change in terms of economy and tourism development as well. This is possible because the EGTC functions as a quasi-enterprise, being a legal entity as well and so it is able to tender not only the national sources but directly from Brussels. It is also a unique situation at this organisation that while in the Carpathian Basin the cross border relations are mainly based on Hungarian-Hungarian relations, in this case the Croatian-Croatian partnership is dominating. In addition, size and existing daily inter-ethnic relations contribute to the high level of success (BALI, L.-FITOS, G. 2012). The Mura Region EGTC was registered by the Croatian and Hungarian partners in June 2015 to strengthen the social-economical cohesion with the improvement of accessibility on the micro level and the evolving of eco-touristic developments for less environmental impacts. The Mura Region provides unique natural environment and a rather complex potential for tourism (CSAPO, J. 2014). Unfortunately the quantity and quality of the infrastructure demands further investments to satisfy different needs of the tourists. Creating a good relationship for cooperation and permanent search for financial resources are essential tasks for local governments. This study aims to demonstrate the formation, programming activity and future potential of the Mura Region EGTC pointing out recommendations of further development directions by presenting past and relevant present projects and analysing their multiplier effects. The research is completed with detailed legal analysis and interviews with municipal leaders.
Z39|A Model For The Transition Towards The Sustainable Management Of Tourism Destinations In Ireland|Tourism destinations depend upon complex development, planning, management and stakeholder involvement. The sustainable management of tourism requires consideration due to the contribution it makes to environmental, cultural/social and economic issues. However tourism destination management is not a straight forward process. Organisations tasked with developing tourism need to be aware of the sensitive issues which may affect the local community. This papers draws on previous doctoral research into both the demand and supply of sustainable tourism in Ireland. Additional analysis from research into the levels of sustainable management of tourism destinations in Ireland was also used to construct a model to help in the transition towards sustainable management of tourism destinations (SMTD). Future tourism policy making may be enhanced by the implementation of the model for the transition towards the sustainable management of tourism destinations.
Z39|Local Authority Planning Provision Of Policies And Guidelines For Event Management: An Irish Perspective|This paper examines the role local authorities play in planning for event management on a global scale. More specifically it focuses on assessing the local authority planning provision of policies and guidelines to responsibly manage the process of event management in the Republic of Ireland. This research utilised a quantitative methodology in the form of a content analysis approach. This approach allowed for a valuable cross representation of results in relation to local authority planning for event management in Ireland. Analysis revealed a lack of adoption and integration of planning policies and guidelines within local authorities nationwide. This has implications for the sustainability and longevity of the event industry in Ireland. As such the need to understand the importance of developing and implementing sustainable planning systems for the event industry in Ireland by local authorities cannot be ignored. This paper concludes that while the lack of adoption of planning systems by local authorities in Ireland is worrying, regulating and implementing sustainable planning systems nationwide can improve it.
Z39|Importance and impact of guest satisfaction| The service quality can be measured by the consumers’ satisfaction. Researchers assume that high quality satisfies the guests and satisfaction may increase their loyalty. The main goal of this article is to measure guest satisfaction and prove its positive impacts on Hungarian hotels’ performance. A comprehensive survey was made on the Hungarian wellness hotels in October 2012; the primary aim was to provide them suggestions to improve their quality on the base of guests’ feedback. A self-administered questionnaire were compiled and sent back by 815 respondents. The investigation examined the quality awareness, quality perception, guest satisfaction and the following behavioral intentions of domestic guests of spa hotels. It can be concluded that domestic guests are generally satisfied with the quality of services offered by Hungarian spa hotels. The message of this research is for hotel managers that the increase of guest satisfaction can be reached by the improvement of service quality, and not only with price discounts. It has been demonstrated that satisfaction is closely related to their willingness to return to the hotel, so it is an essential condition of loyalty.
Z39|INNOVATION IN HEALTH TOURISM – CREATION OF SpaHealth y APPLICATION| This primary research examines the introduction of an innovative health promotion service into the market. Given the assumption that healthcare costs should be part of one’s budget, the survey reveals two trends: 1. Health concerns are more observed by consumers having higher social statuses, this means that they are ready to pay money for health preservative services; 2. Health turns into a precious value when we are running short of it. This assumption is well asserted by the finding of the survey that it is those suffering from chronic diseases that would be ready to pay the highest of all sums to buy the service.
